Data File: GSS2004 (Description Only Codebook)

1) YEAR
Year of survey



2) ID
Respondent original ID Number



3) WRKSTAT
Last week were you working full time, part time, going to school, keeping house, or what?



4) HRS1
If working, full or part time: How many hours did you work last week, at all jobs?



5) HRS2
If with a job, but not at work: How many hours a week do you usually work, at all jobs?



6) EVWORK
If retired, in school, keeping house, or other: Did you ever work for as long as one year?



7) WRKSLF
(Are/Were) you self employed or (do/did) you work for someone else?



8) WRKGOVT
Respondent's employer



9) OCC80
Respondent's occupation (see Note 1: Occupation Codes on the ARDA summary page)



10) PRESTG80
Prestige of respondent's occupation (see Note 1: Prestige Scores on the ARDA summary page)



11) INDUS80
Respondent's industry (see Note 2: Industrial Classification on the ARDA summary page)



12) MARITAL
Are you currently -- married, widowed, divorced, separated, or have you never been married?



13) DIVORCE
Asked only of those who are currently married or widowed: Have you ever been divorced or legally separated?



14) WIDOWED
Have you ever been widowed?



15) SPWRKSTA
Last week was your (wife/husband) working full time, part time, going to school, keeping house, or what?



16) SPHRS1
If spouse working, full or part time: How many hours did (he/she) work last week, at all jobs?



17) SPHRS2
If spouse with job, but not at work: How many hours a week does (he/she) usually work, at all jobs?



18) SPEVWORK
If spouse retired, in school, keeping house, or other: Did (he/she) ever work for as long as one year?



19) SPWRKSLF
Spouse's employment status



20) SPOCC80
Respondent's spouse's occupation (see Note 1: Occupation Codes on the ARDA summary page)



21) SPPRES80
Prestige of respondent's spouse's occupation (see Note 1: Occupation Codes on the ARDA summary page)



22) SPIND80
Respondent's spouse's industry (see Note 2: Industrial Classification on the ARDA summary page)



23) PAWRKSLF
Father's employment status: While you were growing up was your father self-employed or did he work for someone else?



24) PAOCC80
Respondent's father's occupation (see Note 1: Occupation Codes on the ARDA summary page)



25) PAPRES80
Prestige of father's occupation (see Note 1: Prestige Scores on the ARDA summary page)



26) PAIND80
Respondent's father's industry (see Note 1: Industrial Classification on the ARDA summary page)



27) MAOCC80
Occupation of respondent's mother



28) MAPRES80
Prestige of Respondent's mother's occupation



29) MAWRKSLF
Was respondent's mother self-employed or did she work for someone else?



30) MAIND80
Industry of respondent's mother



31) SIBS
How many brothers and sisters did you have? Please count those born alive, but no longer living, as well as those alive now. Also include stepbrothers and stepsisters, and children adopted by your parents.



32) CHILDS
How many children have you ever had? Please count all that were born alive at any time (including any you had from a previous marriage).



33) AGE
Respondent's age



34) AGEKDBRN
How old were you when your first child was born?



35) EDUC
Respondent's education: What is the highest grade in elementary school or high school that you finished and got credit for?



36) PAEDUC
What is the highest grade in elementary school or high school that your father (or substitute father) finished and got credit for?



37) MAEDUC
What is the highest grade in elementary school or high school that your mother (substitute mother) finished and got credit for?



38) SPEDUC
What is the highest grade in elementary or high school that your (husband/wife) finished and got credit for?



39) DEGREE
Highest educational degree earned by respondent



40) PADEG
Highest educational degree of respondent's father



41) MADEG
Highest educational degree of respondent's mother



42) SPDEG
Highest educational degree of respondent's spouse



43) SEX
Respondent's sex



44) RACE
Respondent's race



45) RES16
Which of the categories on this card comes closest to the type of place you were living in when you were 16 years old? (Open country, farm, small city or town, medium size city, suburb near large city, large city)



46) REG16
In what state or foreign country were you living when you were 16 years old?



47) MOBILE16
When you were 16 years old, were you living in this same (city/town/county)?



48) FAMILY16
Were you living with both your own mother and father around the time you were 16? (If no: With whom were you living around that time?)



49) FAMDIF16
If not living with both own mother and father: What happened?



50) MAWRKGRW
Did (respondent's mother) work for as long as a year, while you were growing up?



51) INCOM16
Thinking about the time when you were 16 years old, compared with American families in general then, would you say your family income was -- far below average, below average, average, above average, or far above average?



52) BORNUSA
Were you born in this country?



53) PARBORN
Were both your parents born in this country?



54) GRANBORN
Were all of your four grandparents born in this country? IF NO: How many were born outside the United States?



55) HOMPOP
Number of household members



56) BABIES
Number of members under 6



57) PRETEEN
Number of members 6 to 12 years



58) TEENS
Number of members 13 to 17 years old



59) ADULTS
Number of members over 17 years old



60) UNRELAT
How many persons in the household are not related to you in any way?



61) EARNRS
Just thinking about your family now -- those people in the household who are related to you . . . How many persons in the family, including yourself earned any money last year from any job or employment?



62) INCOME
In which of these groups did your total family income, from all sources, fall last year before taxes, that is?



63) RINCOME
In which of these groups did your earnings from (stated occupation) for last year fall? That is, before taxes or other deductions.



64) INCOME98
In which of these groups did your total family income, from all sources, fall last year before taxes, that is?  Family income on the 1998 survey



65) RINCOM98
Respondent's income on the 1998, 2000 surveys.



66) WEEKSWRK
In [1993/95] how many weeks did you work either full-time or part-time not counting work around the house--include paid vacations and sick leave?



67) PARTFULL
When you worked in [1993/94], was it usually full or part time?



68) REGION
Region of interview



69) PARTYID
Generally speaking, do you usually think of yourself as a Republican, Democrat, Independent, or what?



70) VOTE00
In 2000, you remember that Gore ran for President on the Democratic ticket against Bush for the Republicans. Do you remember for sure whether or not you voted in that election?



71) PRES00
If voted in 2000 election: Did you vote for Gore or Bush?



72) IF00WHO
If did not vote or ineligible: Who would you have voted for, for President, if you had voted?



73) POLVIEW
I'm going to show you a seven-point scale on which the political views that people might hold are arranged from extremely liberal to extremely conservative. Where would you place yourself on this scale?



74) NATSPAC
Spending on the space exploration program



75) NATENVIR
Spending on improving and protecting the environment



76) NATHEAL
Spending on improving and protecting the nation's health



77) NATCITY
Spending on solving the problems of the big cities



78) NATCRIME
Spending on halting the rising crime rate



79) NATDRUG
Spending on dealing with drug addiction



80) NATEDUC
Spending on improving the nation's education system



81) NATRACE
Spending on improving the conditions of Blacks



82) NATARMS
Spending on the military, armaments and defense



83) NATAID
Spending on foreign aid



84) NATFARE
Spending on welfare



85) NATROAD
Spending on highways and bridges



86) NATSOC
Spending on Social Security



87) NATMASS
Spending on mass transportation



88) NATPARK
Spending on parks and recreation



89) NATCHLD
Spending on assistance for childcare



90) NATSCI
Spending on supporting scientific research



91) NATSPACY
Spending on space exploration



92) NATENVIY
Spending on the environment



93) NATHEALY
Spending on health



94) NATACITY
Spending on assistance to big cities



95) NATCRIMY
Spending on law enforcement



96) NATDRUGY
Spending on drug rehabilitation



97) NATEDUCY
Spending on education



98) NATRACEY
Spending on assistance to Blacks



99) NATARMSY
Spending on national defense



100) NATAIDY
Spending on assistance to other countries



101) NATFAREY
Spending on assistance to the poor



102) EQWLTH
Respondents asked to place themselves on a scale: From 1) Government should do something to reduce income differences between rich and poor; to 7) Government should not concern itself with income differences.



103) TAX
Do you consider the amount of federal income tax which you have to pay as too high, about right, or too low?



104) SPKATH
Consider a person who is against all churches and religion. If such a person wanted to make a speech in your (city/town/community) against churches and religion, should he/she be allowed to speak, or not?



105) COLATH
Should a person who is against all churches and religion be allowed to teach in a college or university, or not?



106) LIBATH
If some people in your community suggested that a book written by an atheist against churches and religion should be taken out of your public library, would you favor removing this book, or not?



107) SPKRAC
Consider a person who believes that Blacks are genetically inferior. If such a person wanted to make a speech in your community claiming that Blacks are inferior, should he/she be allowed to speak, or not?



108) COLRAC
Should a person who believes that Blacks are genetically inferior be allowed to teach in a college or university, or not?



109) LIBRAC
If some people in your community suggested that a book, written by a racist, which said Blacks are inferior should be taken out of your public library, would you favor removing this book, or not?



110) SPKCOM
Suppose an admitted Communist wanted to make a speech in your community. Should he be allowed to speak, or not?



111) COLCOM
Suppose an admitted Communist is teaching in a college. Should he be fired, or not?



112) LIBCOM
Suppose an admitted Communist wrote a book which is in your public library. Somebody in your community suggests that the book should be removed from the library. Would you favor removing it, or not?



113) SPKMIL
Consider a person who advocates doing away with elections and letting the military run the country. If such a person wanted to make a speech in your community, should he/she be allowed to speak, or not?



114) COLMIL
Should a person who advocates doing away with elections and letting the military run the country be allowed to teach in a college or university, or not?



115) LIBMIL
Suppose a person wrote a book advocating doing away with elections and letting the military run the country. Somebody in your community suggests that the book be removed from the public library. Would you favor removing it, or not?



116) SPKHOMO
Consider a man who admits that he is a homosexual. Suppose this admitted homosexual wanted to make a speech in your community. Should he be allowed to speak, or not?



117) COLHOMO
Should an admitted homosexual be allowed to teach in a college or university, or not?



118) LIBHOMO
If some people in your community suggested that a book written by a homosexual in favor of homosexuality should be taken out of your public library, would you favor removing this book, or not?



119) CAPPUN
Do you favor or oppose the death penalty for persons convicted of murder?



120) GUNLAW
Would you favor or oppose a law which would require a person to obtain a police permit before he or she could buy a gun?



121) COURTS
In general, do you think the courts in this area deal too harshly or not harshly enough with criminals?



122) GRASS
Do you think the use of marijuana should be made legal or not?



123) USWARY
Do you expect the United States to fight in another world war within the next ten years?



124) RELIG
What is your religious preference? Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion, or no religion?



125) DENOM
If protestant: What specific denomination is that, if any?



126) OTHER
Other Protestant denominations (see Note 20: Religious Affiliation on the ARDA summary page)



127) JEW
If Jewish: Do you consider yourself Orthodox, Conservative, Reform or none of these?



128) FUND
Fundamentalism/liberalism of respondent's religion



129) ATTEND
How often do you attend religious services?



130) RELITEN
Would you call yourself a strong (stated religious preference) or a not very strong (stated religious preference).



131) POSTLIFE
Do you believe there is a life after death?



132) PRAY
About how often do you pray?



133) POPESPKS
Asked only OF Catholics: Under certain conditions the Pope is infallible when he speaks on matters of faith and morals.



134) SPREL
What is your (spouse's) religious preference? Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion, or no religion?



135) RELIG16
In what religion were you raised?



136) DENOM16
If Protestant: What specific denomination is that, if any?



137) OTH16
Other Protestant denominations (see Note 20: Religious Affiliation on the ARDA summary page)



138) JEW16
If Jewish: Were you Orthodox, Conservative, Reform, or none of these?



139) FUND16
Fundamentalism/liberalism of religion respondent raised in



140) SPDEN
If Protestant: What specific denomination is that, if any?



141) SPOTHER
Spouse: Other Protestant denominations (see Note 20: Religious Affiliation on the ARDA summary page)



142) SPJEW
Does (s/he) consider (her/himself) Orthodox, Conservative, Reform or none of these?



143) SPFUND
Fundamentalism/liberalism of religion of spouse



144) SPOTH16
Spouse: Other Protestant denomination (see Note 20: Religious Affiliation on the ARDA summary page)



145) PRAYER
The United States Supreme Court has ruled that no state or local government may require the reading of the Lord's Prayer or Bible verses in public schools. What are your views on this--do you approve or disapprove of the court ruling?



146) BIBLE
Select from: a. Bible is actual word of God and is to be taken literally...; b. Bible is the inspired word of God but not everything in it should be taken literally ...; c. The Bible is an ancient book of fables, ... recorded by men.



147) PROTTEMP
Temperature toward Protestants 0=Cold;100=Hot I'd like to get your feelings toward groups that are in the news these days. I will use something we call the feeling thermometer, and here is how it works. I'll read the name of a groups and I'd like you to rate that group using the feeling thermometer. Ratings between 50 degrees and 100 degrees mean that you feel favorable and warm toward the group. Ratings between 0 degrees and 50 degrees mean that you don't feel favorable toward the group and that you don't care too much for that group. How would you rate Protestants? (998 = Don't know/999=No answer)



148) CATHTEMP
Temperature toward Catholics 0=Cold;100=Hot I'd like to get your feelings toward groups that are in the news these days. I will use something we call the feeling thermometer, and here is how it works. I'll read the name of a groups and I'd like you to rate that group using the feeling thermometer. Ratings between 50 degrees and 100 degrees mean that you feel favorable and warm toward the group. Ratings between 0 degrees and 50 degrees mean that you don't feel favorable toward the group and that you don't care too much for that group. How would you rate Catholics? (998 = Don't know/999=No answer)



149) JEWTEMP
Temperature toward Jews 0=Cold;100=Hot I'd like to get your feelings toward groups that are in the news these days. I will use something we call the feeling thermometer, and here is how it works. I'll read the name of a groups and I'd like you to rate that group using the feeling thermometer. Ratings between 50 degrees and 100 degrees mean that you feel favorable and warm toward the group. Ratings between 0 degrees and 50 degrees mean that you don't feel favorable toward the group and that you don't care too much for that group. How would you rate Jews? (998 = Don't know/999=No answer)



150) MSLMTEMP
Temperature toward Muslims 0=Cold;100=Hot: I'd like to get your feelings toward groups that are in the news these days. I will use something we call the feeling thermometer, and here is how it works. I'll read the name of a groups and I'd like you to rate that group using the feeling thermometer. Ratings between 50 degrees and 100 degrees mean that you feel favorable and warm toward the group. Ratings between 0 degrees and 50 degrees mean that you don't feel favorable toward the group and that you don't care too much for that group. How would you rate Muslims? (998 = Don't know/999=No answer)



151) RACOPEN
Select from: A. One law says that a homeowner can decide for himself whom to sell his house to, even if he prefers not to sell to (Negroes/ Blacks/ African-Americans); or B. The 2nd law says that a homeowner cannot refuse to sell to someone because of their race or color.



152) RACLIVE
Before 1978 asked Non-Blacks only, 1978 & later all asked about opposite race: Are there any [(Negroes/ Blacks/African-Americans)/Whites] living in this neighborhood now?



153) AFFRMACT
Do you favor or oppose preference in hiring and promotion strongly or not strongly?



154) WRKWAYUP
Do you agree strongly, agree somewhat, neither agree nor disagree, disagree somewhat, or disagree strongly with the following statement: Irish, Italians, Jewish and many other minorities overcame prejudice and worked their way up.  Blacks should do the same without special favors.



155) CLOSEBLK
In general, how close do you feel to Blacks?



156) CLOSEWHT
In general, how close do you feel to Whites?



157) HAPPY
Taken all together, how would you say things are these days -- would you say that you are very happy, pretty happy, or not too happy?



158) HAPMAR
If currently married: Taking things all together, how would you describe your marriage? Would you say that your marriage is very happy, pretty happy, or not too happy?



159) HEALTH
Would you say your own health, in general, is excellent, good, fair, or poor?



160) LIFE
In general, do you find life exciting, pretty routine, or dull?



161) HELPFUL
Would you say that most of the time people try to be helpful, or that they are mostly just looking out for themselves?



162) FAIR
Do you think most people would try to take advantage of you if they got a chance, or would they try to be fair?



163) TRUST
Generally speaking, would you say that most people can be trusted or that you can't be too careful in dealing with people?)



164) CONFINAN
Confidence? Banks and financial institutions.



165) CONBUS
Confidence? Major companies.



166) CONCLERG
Confidence? Organized religion.



167) CONEDUC
Confidence? Education.



168) CONFED
Confidence? Executive branch of the federal government.



169) CONLABOR
Confidence? Organized labor.



170) CONPRESS
Confidence? Press.



171) CONMEDIC
Confidence? Medicine.



172) CONTV
Confidence? TV



173) CONJUDGE
Confidence? U.S. Supreme Court.



174) CONSCI
Confidence? Scientific Community.



175) CONLEGIS
Confidence? Congress.



176) CONARMY
Confidence? Military.



177) OBEY
Importance of learned quality for a child: A. To obey



178) POPULAR
Importance of learned quality for a child: B. To be well-liked or popular



179) THNKSELF
Importance of learned quality for a child: C. To think for himself or herself 



180) WORKHARD
Importance of learned quality for a child: D. To work hard



181) HELPOTH
Importance of learned quality for a child: E. To help others when they need help



182) SOCREL
How often: Spend a social evening with relatives?



183) SOCOMMUN
How often: Spend a social evening with someone who lives in your neighborhood?



184) SOCFREND
How often: Spend a social evening with friends who live outside the neighborhood?



185) SOCBAR
How often: Go to a bar or tavern?



186) AGED
As you know, many older people share a home with their grown children. Do you think this is generally a good idea or a bad idea?



187) JOBLOSE
Thinking about the next 12 months, how likely do you think it is that you will lose your job or be laid off -- very likely, fairly likely, not too likely, or not at all likely?



188) JOBFIND
About how easy would it be for you to find a job with another employer with approximately the same income and fringe benefits you now have? Would you say very easy, somewhat easy, or not easy at all?



189) SATJOB
On the whole, how satisfied are you with the work you do -- would you say you are very satisfied, moderately satisfied, a little dissatisfied, or very dissatisfied?



190) RICHWORK
If you were to get enough money to live as comfortably as you would like for the rest of your life, would you continue to work or would you stop working?



191) CLASS
If you were asked to use one of four names for your social class, which would you say you belong in: the lower class, the working class, the middle class, or the upper class?



192) RANK
In our society there are groups which tend to be towards the top and those that are towards the bottom. Here we have a scale that runs from top to bottom. Where would you put yourself on this scale?



193) SATFIN
So far as you and your family are concerned, would you say that you are pretty well satisfied with your present financial situation, more or less satisfied, or not satisfied at all?



194) FINALTER
During the last few years, has your financial situation been getting better, worse or has it stayed the same?



195) FINRELA
Compared with American families in general, would you say your family income is far below average, below average, average, above average, or far above average?



196) WKSUB
Do you (does your [spouse]) have a supervisor on (your, his, her) job to whom you are (he, she, is) directly responsible?



197) WKSUBS
If yes: Does that person have a supervisor on the job to whom he is directly responsible?



198) WKSUP
In your (spouse's) job, (do you, does he, she) supervise anyone who is directly responsible to (you, him, her)?



199) WKSUPS
If yes: Do any of those persons supervise anyone else?



200) UNEMP
At any time during the last ten years, have you been unemployed and looking for work for as long as a month?



201) UNION
Do you (or your [spouse]) belong to a labor union? (Who?)



202) GETAHEAD
Some people say that people get ahead by their own hard work; others say that lucky breaks or help from other people are more important. Which do you think is most important?



203) PARSOL
Compared to your parents when they were the age you are now, do you think your own standard of living now is much better, somewhat better, about the same, somewhat worse, or much worse than theirs was?



204) KIDSSOL
When your children are at the age you are now, do you think their standard of living will be much better, somewhat better, about the same, somewhat worse, or much worse than yours is now?



205) FEPOL
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: Most men are better suited emotionally for politics than are most women.



206) ABDEFECT
Legal abortion: If there is a strong chance of serious defect in the baby?



207) ABNOMORE
Legal abortion: If she is married and does not want any more children?



208) ABHLTH
Legal abortion: If the woman's own health is seriously endangered by the pregnancy?



209) ABPOOR
Legal abortion: If the family has a very low income and cannot afford any more children?



210) ABORRAPE
Legal abortion: If she became pregnant as a result of rape?)



211) ABSINGLE
Legal abortion: If she is not married and does not want to marry the man?



212) ABANY
Legal abortion: If the women wants it for any reason?



213) CHLDIDEL
What do you think is the ideal number of children for a family to have?



214) PILLOK
Do you strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly disagree that methods of birth control should be available to teenagers between the ages of 14 and 16 if their parents do not approve?



215) SEXEDUC
Would you be for or against sex education in the public schools?



216) DIVLAW
Should divorce in this country be easier or more difficult to obtain than it is now?



217) PREMARSX
There's been a lot of discussion about the way morals and attitudes about sex are changing in this country. If a man and woman have sex relations before marriage, do you think it is always wrong, almost always wrong, wrong only sometimes or not wrong at all?



218) TEENSEX
What if they are in their early teens, say 14 to 16 years old? In that case, do you think sex relations before marriage are always wrong, almost always wrong, wrong only sometimes, or not wrong at all?



219) XMARSEX
What is your opinion about a married person having sexual relations with someone other than the marriage partner -- is it always wrong, almost always wrong, wrong only sometimes, or not wrong at all?



220) HOMOSEX
What about sexual relations between two adults of the same sex -- do you think it is always wrong, almost always wrong, wrong only sometimes, or not wrong at all?



221) PORNLAW
Choose: 1) There should be laws against the distribution of pornography whatever the age; 2) There should be laws against the distribution of pornography to persons under 18; or 3) There should be no laws forbidding the distribution of pornography.



222) XMOVIE
Have you seen an X-rated movie in the last year?



223) SPANKING
Do you strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly disagree that it is sometimes necessary to discipline a child with a good, hard spanking?



224) LETDIE1
When a person has a disease that cannot be cured, do you think doctors should be allowed by law to end the patient's life by some painless means if the patient and his family request it?



225) SUICIDE1
Person has right to end own life if this person has an incurable disease?



226) SUICIDE2
Person has right to end own life if this person has gone bankrupt?



227) SUICIDE3
Person has right to end own life if this person has dishonored his or her family?



228) SUICIDE4
Person has right to end own life if this person is tired of living and ready to die?



229) POLHITOK
Are there any situations you can imagine in which you would approve of a policeman striking an adult male citizen?



230) POLABUSE
Approve policeman striking citizen who: had said vulgar and obscene things to the policeman?



231) POLMURDR
Approve policeman striking citizen who: was being questioned as a suspect in a murder case?



232) POLESCAP
Approve of policeman striking citizen who: was attempting to escape from custody?



233) POLATTAK
Approve of policeman striking citizen who: was attacking the policeman with his fists?



234) FEAR
Is there any area right around here -- that is, within a mile -- where you would be afraid to walk alone at night?



235) OWNGUN
Do you happen to have in your home (If house: or garage) any guns or revolvers?



236) PISTOL
If yes (owngun): Is it a pistol, shotgun, rifle, or what? (Each coded as separate question)



237) SHOTGUN
Own gun?: Is it a shotgun?



238) RIFLE
Own gun?: Is it a rifle?



239) ROWNGUN
Do any of these guns personally belong to you?



240) HUNT
Do you (or does your husband/wife) go hunting?



241) NEWS
How often do you read the newspaper -- every day, a few times a week, once a week, less than once a week, or never?



242) TVHOURS
On the average day, about how many hours do you personally watch television?



243) PHONE
Do you have a telephone? May I have your name and telephone number ... Is this phone located in your own home?



244) COOP
In general, what was the respondent's attitude toward the interview?



245) COMPREND
Was respondent's understanding of the questions good, fair or poor?



246) FORM
Form number



247) FECHLD
Agree or disagree?: A working mother can establish just as warm and secure a relationship with her children as a mother who does not work.



248) FEPRESCH
Agree or disagree?: A preschool child is likely to suffer if his or her mother works.



249) FEFAM
Agree or disagree?: It is much better for everyone involved if the man is the achiever outside the home and the woman takes care of the home and family.



250) RACDIF1
On the average (Negroes/Blacks) have worse jobs, income, and housing than white people. Do you think these differences are . . . A. Mainly due to discrimination?



251) RACDIF2
On the average (Negroes/Blacks) have worse jobs, income, and housing than white people. Do you think these differences are . . . B. Because most (Negroes/Blacks) have less in-born ability to learn?



252) RACDIF3
On the average (Negroes/Blacks) have worse jobs, income, and housing than white people. Do you think these differences are . . . C. Because most (Negroes/Blacks) don't have the chance for education that it takes to rise out of poverty?



253) RACDIF4
On the average (Negroes/Blacks) have worse jobs, income, and housing than white people. Do you think these differences are . . . D. Because most (Negroes/Blacks) just don't have the motivation or will power to pull themselves up out of poverty?



254) RUSHED
In general how do you feel about your time--would you say you always feel rushed even to do things you have to do, only sometimes feel rushed, or almost never feel rushed.



255) BORED
If sometimes or almost never feel rushed: How often would you say you have time on your hands that you don't know what to do with -- quite often, just now and then, or almost never?



256) HELPPOOR
Place self on scale: 1) I strongly agree the government should improve living standards; To 5) I strongly agree that people should take care of themselves.



257) HELPNOT
Scale on how many things the government does: 1) I strongly agree that government should do more; To 2) I strongly agree that the government is doing too much.



258) HELPSICK
Scale on government covering medical costs: 1) I strongly agree it is the responsibility of government to help; To 5) I strongly agree people should take care of themselves.



259) HELPBLK
Scale on government helping blacks: 1) I strongly agree the government is obligated to help blacks; TO 5) I strongly agree that government shouldn't give special treatment.



260) NUMGIVEN
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Looking back over the last six months--who are the people with whom you discussed matters important to you? How many names were mentioned?



261) CLOSE12
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Closeness of first and second persons



262) CLOSE13
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Closeness of first and third persons



263) CLOSE14
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Closeness of first and fourth persons



264) CLOSE15
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Closeness of first and fifth persons



265) CLOSE23
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Closeness of second and third persons



266) CLOSE24
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Closeness of second and fourth persons



267) CLOSE25
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Closeness of second and fifth persons



268) CLOSE34
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Closeness of third and fourth persons



269) CLOSE35
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Closeness of third and fifth persons



270) CLOSE45
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Closeness of fourth and fifth persons



271) SEX1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Sex of first person



272) SEX2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Sex of second person



273) SEX3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Sex of third person



274) SEX4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Sex of fourth person



275) SEX5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Sex of fifth person



276) RACE1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Race of first person



277) RACE2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Race of Second Person



278) RACE3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Race of third person



279) RACE4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Race of Fourth Person



280) RACE5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Race of fifth person



281) SPOUSE1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. First person is spouse



282) SPOUSE2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Second person is spouse



283) SPOUSE3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Third person is spouse



284) SPOUSE4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fourth person is spouse



285) SPOUSE5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fifth person is spouse



286) PARENT1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. First person is parent



287) PARENT2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Second person is parent



288) PARENT3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Third person is parent



289) PARENT4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fourth person is parent



290) PARENT5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fifth person is parent



291) SIBLING1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. First person is sibling



292) SIBLING2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Second person is sibling



293) SIBLING3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Third person is sibling



294) SIBLING4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fourth person is sibling



295) SIBLING5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fifth person is sibling



296) CHILD1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. First person is child



297) CHILD2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Second person is child



298) CHILD3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Third person is child



299) CHILD4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fourth person is child



300) CHILD5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fifth person is child



301) OTHFAM1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. First person is other family member



302) OTHFAM2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Second person is other family member



303) OTHFAM3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Third person is other family member



304) OTHFAM4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fourth person is other family member



305) OTHFAM5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fifth person is other family member



306) COWORK1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. First person is co-worker



307) COWORK2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Second person is co-worker



308) COWORK3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Third person is co-worker



309) COWORK4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fourth person is co-worker



310) COWORK5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fifth person is co-worker



311) MEMGRP1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. First person is group member



312) MEMGRP2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Second person is group member



313) MEMGRP3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Third person is group member



314) MEMGRP4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fourth person is group member



315) MEMGRP5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fifth person is group member



316) NEIGHBR1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. First person is neighbor



317) NEIGHBR2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Second person is neighbor



318) NEIGHBR3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Third person is neighbor



319) NEIGHBR4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fourth person is neighbor



320) NEIGHBR5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fifth person is neighbor



321) FRIEND1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. First person is friend



322) FRIEND2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Second person is friend



323) FRIEND3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Third person is friend



324) FRIEND4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fourth person is friend



325) FRIEND5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fifth person is friend



326) ADVISOR1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. First person is advisor



327) ADVISOR2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Second person is advisor



328) ADVISOR3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Third person is advisor



329) ADVISOR4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fourth person is advisor



330) ADVISOR5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fifth person is advisor



331) OTHER1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. First person is other



332) OTHER2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Second person is other



333) OTHER3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Third person is other



334) OTHER4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fourth person is other



335) OTHER5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Fifth person is other



336) TALKTO1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Thinking about how often you usually talk to (name), on the average, do you talk to (him/her) almost every day, at least once a week, at least once a month, or less than once a month? Talks to first person



337) TALKTO2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Thinking about how often you usually talk to (name), on the average, do you talk to (him/her) almost every day, at least once a week, at least once a month, or less than once a month? Talks to second person



338) TALKTO3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Thinking about how often you usually talk to (NAME), on the average, do you talk to (him/her) almost every day, at least once a week, at least once a month, or less than once a month? Talks to third person



339) TALKTO4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Thinking about how often you usually talk to (name), on the average, do you talk to (him/her) almost every day, at least once a week, at least once a month, or less than once a month? Talks to fourth person



340) TALKTO5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Thinking about how often you usually talk to (NAME), on the average, do you talk to (him/her) almost every day, at least once a week, at least once a month, or less than once a month? Talks to fifth person



341) EDUC1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. This card lists general levels of education. As far as you know, what is (name)'s highest level of education? Education of first person



342) EDUC2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. This card lists general levels of education. As far as you know, what is (name)'s highest level of education? Education of second person



343) EDUC3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. This card lists general levels of education. As far as you know, what is (name)'s highest level of education? Education of third person



344) EDUC4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. This card lists general levels of education. As far as you know, what is (name)'s highest level of education? Education of fourth person



345) EDUC5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. This card lists general levels of education. As far as you know, what is (name)'s highest level of education? Education of fifth person



346) AGE1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Age of first person



347) AGE2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Age of second person



348) AGE3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Age of third person



349) AGE4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Age of fourth person



350) AGE5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. Age of fifth person



351) RELIG1
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. What is (name)'s religious preference? Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion or no religion? Religion of first person



352) RELIG2
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. What is (name)'s religious preference? Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion or no religion? Religion of second person



353) RELIG3
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. What is (name)'s religious preference? Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion or no religion? Religion of third person



354) RELIG4
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. What is (name)'s religious preference? Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion or no religion? Religion of fourth person



355) RELIG5
From time to time, most people discuss important matters with other people. What is (name)'s religious preference? Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion or no religion? Religion of Fifth Person



356) MEMFRAT
Member? Fraternal groups



357) MEMSERV
Member? Service clubs



358) MEMVET
Member? Veterans' groups



359) MEMPOLIT
Member? Political clubs



360) MEMUNION
Member? Labor unions



361) MEMSPORT
Member? Sports groups



362) MEMYOUTH
Member? Youth groups



363) MEMSCHL
Member? School service groups



364) MEMHOBBY
Member? Hobby or garden clubs



365) MEMGREEK
Member? School fraternities or sororities



366) MEMNAT
Member? Nationality groups



367) MEMFARM
Member? Farm organizations



368) MEMLIT
Member? Literary, art, discussion or study groups



369) MEMPROF
Member? Professional or academic societies



370) MEMCHURH
Member? Church-affiliated groups



371) MEMOTHER
Member? Any other groups



372) MEMNUM
Any membership at all



373) REBORN
Would you say you have been 'born again' or have had a 'born again' experience -- that is, a turning point in your life when you committed yourself to Christ?



374) WLTHWHTS
Where would you rate the wealth of the following groups: Whites.



375) WLTHBLKS
The wealth of Blacks.



376) WORKWHTS
Do the people in the following groups tend to be hard working or do they tend to be lazy: Whites.



377) WORKBLKS
The work habits of Blacks.



378) INTLWHTS
Do the people in the following groups tend to be unintelligent or do they tend to be intelligent: Whites.



379) INTLBLKS
The intelligence of Blacks.



380) LIVEBLKS
Would you favor living in a neighborhood where half of your neighbors were Blacks?



381) LIVEWHTS
Now I'm going to ask you about different types of contact with various groups of people. In each situation would you please tell me whether you would be very much in favor of it happening, somewhat in favor, neither in favor nor opposed to it happening, somewhat opposed, or very much opposed to it happening? -- Living in a neighborhood where half of your neighbors were Whites.



382) MARBLK
How would you respond to a close relative marrying a black person?



383) MARASIAN
How would you respond to a close relative marrying an Asian American person?



384) MARHISP
How would you respond to a close relative marrying an Hispanic American person?



385) MARWHT
What about having a close relative marry a white person? Would you be very in favor of it happening, somewhat in favor, neither in favor nor opposed to it happening, somewhat opposed, or very opposed to it happening?



386) RACWORK
If employed: Are the people who work where you work all white, mostly white, about half and half, mostly black, or all black?



387) DISCAFF
What do you think the chances are these days that a white person won't get a job or promotion while an equally or less qualified black person gets one instead?



388) FEJOBAFF
Some people say that because of past discrimination, women should be given preference in hiring and promotion. Others say that such preference in hiring and promotion of women is wrong because it discriminates against men. What about your opinion - are you for or against preferential hiring and promotion of women?



389) DISCAFFM
What do you think the chances are these days that a man won't get a job or promotion while an equally or less qualified woman gets one instead? Is this very likely, somewhat likely, somewhat unlikely, or very unlikely these days?



390) DISCAFFW
What do you think the chances are these days that a woman won't get a job or promotion while an equally or less qualified man gets one instead? Is this very likely, somewhat likely, somewhat unlikely, or very unlikely these days?



391) FEHIRE
How much does respondent agree/disagree with the following statement: Because of past discrimination, employers should make special efforts to hire and promote qualified women.



392) FEELGOD
The following questions deal with possible daily spiritual experiences.  To what extent can you say you experience the following...I feel God's presence.



393) HARMONY
How often does respondent experience the following: I feel deep inner peace and harmony.



394) BEAUSPRT
How often does respondent experience the following: I am spiritually touched by the beauty of creation.



395) RELEXP
Did you ever have a religious or spiritual experience that changed your life?



396) COMPUSE
Do you personally ever use a computer at home, at work, or at some other location?



397) EMAILMIN
About how many minutes per week do you spend sending and answering electronic mail or e-mail?



398) EMAILHR
About how many hours per week do you spend sending and answering electronic mail or e-mail?



399) USEWWW
Other than for e-mail, do you ever use the Internet or World Wide Web?



400) WWWHR
Not counting e-mail, about how many hours per week do you use the Web? (Include time you spend visiting regular web sites and time spent using interactive Internet services like chat rooms, Usenet groups, discussion forums, bulletin boards, and the like.)



401) WWWMIN
Not counting e-mail, about how many minutes per week do you use the Web? (Include time you spend visiting regular web sites and time spent using interactive Internet services like chat rooms, Usenet groups, discussion forums, bulletin boards, and the like.)



402) FIN30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Financial information?



403) SCHL30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Sites related to a school that you or your children attend?



404) EDUC30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Other educational site?



405) WORK30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Sites related to your work?



406) NEWS30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- News and current events?



407) GOVT30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Government information?



408) POL30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Political information?



409) TRAVEL30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Travel?



410) SPORTS30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Sports?



411) MUSIC30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Music/concerts?



412) ART30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Visual art/art museums?



413) TVMOV30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Television or movies?



414) HEALTH30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Health and fitness?



415) RELIG30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Religion/church related?



416) GAMES30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Games you can play on your computer?



417) HUMOR30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Humor?



418) PORN30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Sexually explicit material?



419) PERSON30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Personal home pages?



420) SCI30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Science?



421) HOBBY30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Hobbies and crafts?



422) COOK30
In the past 30 days, how often have you visited a web site for: -- Cooking, recipes?



423) DOWNLOAD
Do you know how to download a file from the World Wide Web to your computer?



424) UPLOAD
Now we'd like to ask you a few questions about terms that people use to talk about the Internet and World Wide Web: -- Do you know how to send a file that is on your computer's hard drive to someone using another computer?



425) HLTHINFO
In the past year have you looked for information about a health concern or medical problem?



426) HLTHPAPR
If r has looked for information about a health concern or medical problem in the past year: Please tell me if you tried to find such health information from: -- Articles in a daily newspaper?



427) HLTHMAG1
If R has looked for information about a health concern or medical problem in the past year: Please tell me if you tried to find such health information from: -- Articles in a general-interest magazine?



428) HLTHMAG2
If R has looked for information about a health concern or medical problem in the past year: Please tell me if you tried to find such health information from: -- Special health or medical magazine or newsletter?



429) HLTHDOC
If R has looked for information about a health concern or medical problem in the past year: Please tell me if you tried to find such health information from: -- A doctor, nurse, or other medical professional



430) HLTHFREL
If R has looked for information about a health concern or medical problem in the past year: Please tell me if you tried to find such health information from: -- Friends or relatives?



431) HLTHTV
If R has looked for information about a health concern or medical problem in the past year: Please tell me if you tried to find such health information from: -- Radio or television programs?



432) HLTHWWW
If R has looked for information about a health concern or medical problem in the past year: Please tell me if you tried to find such health information from: -- The Internet or World Wide Web?



433) NUMCNTCT
Not counting people at work or family at home, about how many other friends or relatives do you keep in contact with at least once a year?



434) INPERSON
Of the friends and relatives you keep in contact with at least once a year: About how many do you stay in contact with by: -- Seeing them socially, face-to-face?



435) BYPHONE
Of the friends and relatives you keep in contact with at least once a year: About how many do you stay in contact with by: -- Talking with them on the telephone?



436) LETTERS
Of the friends and relatives you keep in contact with at least once a year: About how many do you stay in contact with by: -- Exchanging cards or letters through U.S. postal mail?



437) MEETINGS
Of the friends and relatives you keep in contact with at least once a year: About how many do you stay in contact with by: -- Seeing them at meetings or events related to church, clubs, or other groups?



438) BYEMAIL
Of the friends and relatives you keep in contact with at least once a year: About how many do you stay in contact with by: -- Communicating through electronic mail?



439) JOBINFO
In the past year, have you searched for information about a new job or explored career opportunities?



440) JOBPAPER
Please tell me how many times you tried to find such [employment] information (JOBINFO) from: -- Classified ads in a daily newspaper? Would you say not at all, 1 or 2 times, or 3 o r more times?



441) JOBPUB
Please tell me how many times you tried to find such [employment] information (JOBINFO) from: -- Classified ads in an industry or professional publication?



442) JOBCOWRK
Please tell me how many times you tried to find such [employment] information (JOBINFO) from: -- A fellow worker or human resources staff member at your workplace-that is, where you were working when you were searching?



443) JOBCNTCT
Please tell me how many times you tried to find such [employment] information (JOBINFO) from: -- Business or work contacts outside your workplace-that is outside where you were then working?



444) JOBFRNDS
Please tell me how many times you tried to find such [employment] information (JOBINFO) from: -- Friends outside of work or relatives?



445) JOBPLACE
Please tell me how many times you tried to find such [employment] information (JOBINFO) from: -- Any job placement of career counseling service?



446) JOBTVRAD
Please tell me how many times you tried to find such [employment] information (JOBINFO) from: -- Radio or television programs?



447) JOBONWWW
Please tell me how many times you tried to find such [employment] information (JOBINFO) from: -- Information posted on the Internet (World Wide Web)?



448) WEBYR
When did you first begin using the World Wide Web (for purposes other than email)?



449) WEBABLE
Would you rate your ability to use the World Wide Web as excellent, good, fair, poor, or very poor?



450) ADVSRCH
How familiar respondent is with the term: -- 'Advanced Search'



451) PREFSETS
How familiar respondent is with the term: -- 'Preference Settings'



452) NEWSGRPS
How familiar respondent is with the term: -- 'Newsgroups'



453) HOMEBAND
Is your home connected to the World Wide Web by a telephone, a DSL, cable, some other way, or not at all?



454) FREEMNS1
Data to be added later: Open ended question--see NORC codebook for explanation of codes: When you think about freedom, what comes to mind? Can you tell me in a couple of sentences what freedom means to you?



455) FREEEXP1
Data to be added later: Open ended question--see NORC codebook for explanation of codes--What experiences in life make you feel most free? Are there times in your life when you feel especially free? Can you give me an example of an experience that makes you feel really free?



456) MANVSEMP
In general, how would you describe relations in your work place between management and employees?



457) TRYNEWJB
Taking everything into consideration, how likely is it you will make a genuine effort to find a new job with another employer within the next year?



458) HEALTH1
Would you say that in general your health is Excellent, Very good, Good, Fair, or Poor?



459) MNTLHLTH
Now thinking about your mental health, which includes stress, depression, and problems with emotions, for how many days during the past 30 days was your mental health not good?



460) EXTRAYR
What was the most recent year in which you received these performance-based payments? [9998 Don't know; 9999 No answer]



461) LASTWKYR
When were you last working for pay, that is what month and year were you last working? - Year



462) EMPATHY1
How well does the following statement describe your thoughts and feelings; 1 = Does not describe very well to 5 = describes very well.  I often have tender, concerned feelings for people less fortunate than me.



463) EMPATHY2
How well does the following statement describe your thoughts and feelings; 1 = Does not describe very well to 5 = Describes very well. Sometimes I don' t feel very sorry for other people when they are having problems.



464) EMPATHY3
How well does the following statement describe your thoughts and feelings; 1 = Does not describe very well to 5 = Describes very well. When I see someone being taken advantage of, I feel kind of protective towards them.



465) EMPATHY4
How well does the following statement describe your thoughts and feelings; 1 = Does not describe very well to 5 = Describes very well. Other people's misfortunes do not usually disturb me a great deal.



466) EMPATHY5
How well does the following statement describe your thoughts and feelings; 1 = Does not describe very well to 5 = Describes very well. When I see someone being treated unfairly, I sometimes don't feel very much pity for them.



467) EMPATHY6
How well does the following statement describe your thoughts and feelings; 1 = Does not describe very well to 5 = Describes very well. I am often quite touched by things that I see happen.



468) EMPATHY7
How well does the following statement describe your thoughts and feelings; 1 = Does not describe very well to 5 = Describes very well. I would describe myself as a pretty soft-hearted person.



469) GIVBLOOD
During the past 12 months, how often have you done each of the following things: -- Donated blood



470) GIVHMLSS
During the past 12 months, how often have you done each of the following things: -- Given food or money to a homeless person



471) RETCHNGE
During the past 12 months, how often have you done each of the following things: -- Returned money to a cashier after getting too much change



472) CUTAHEAD
During the past 12 months, how often have you done each of the following things: -- Allowed a stranger to go ahead of you in line



473) VOLCHRTY
During the past 12 months, how often have you done each of the following things: -- Done volunteer work for a charity



474) GIVCHRTY
During the past 12 months, how often have you done each of the following things: -- Given money to a charity



475) GIVSEAT
During the past 12 months, how often have you done each of the following things: -- Offered your seat on a bus or in a public place to a stranger who was standing



476) HELPAWAY
During the past 12 months, how often have you done each of the following things: -- Looked after a person's plants, mail, or pets while they were away



477) CARRIED
During the past 12 months, how often have you done each of the following things: -- Carried a stranger's belongings, like groceries, a suitcase, or shopping bag



478) DIRECTNS
During the past 12 months, how often have you done each of the following things: -- Given directions to a stranger



479) LOANITEM
During the past 12 months, how often have you done each of the following things: -- Let someone you didn't know well borrow an item of some value like dishes or tools.



480) SELFLESS
I feel a selfless caring for others.



481) ACCPTOTH
I accept others even when they do things I think are wrong.



482) OTHSHELP
People should be willing to help others who are less fortunate



483) CARESELF
Those in need have to learn to take care of themselves and not depend on others



484) PEOPTRBL
Personally assisting people in trouble is very important to me



485) SELFFRST
These days people need to look after themselves and not overly worry about others



486) DIFSTAND
Some people are held to standards in my workplace that others are not.



487) RPTPROBS
People feel free to report problems in my workplace without fear of negative consequences



488) OTHCREDT
Other people take credit for my work or ideas.



489) PUTDOWN
People at work treat me in a manner that puts me down or address me in unprofessional terms, either publicly or privately.



490) LACKINFO
People at work fail to give me information that is necessary for me to do my job.



491) PERSPACE
People at work get in my personal space in an attempt to intimidate me.



492) PHYSHARM
At work, I have been threatened with physical harm.



493) ACTUPSET
People at work throw things, slam doors, or hit objects when they are upset with me.



494) SHOUT
People at work shout or yell at me in a hostile manner.



495) HOTARGUS
Heated arguments occur in my workplace.



496) RELIEDON
People at work with can be relied on when someone needs help.



497) GDJOBSEC
At work, job security is good.



498) TREATRES
At work, people are treated with respect.



499) LOOKAWAY
In my workplace, people look the other way when others are threatened, intimidated, or put down.



500) WKSTRESS
How often do you find your work stressful?



501) SKIPWORK
During the past 3 months, how often did you stay at home or leave work early because you were unhappy about your work situation?



502) NUMEMPS
If you (are/were) self-employed and (have/had) employees, how many employees (do/did) you have?



503) NATBORN
What country were you born in?



504) BORNHOME
Thinking back to the time when you were born, tell me which box shows the kind of house your family lived in at that time: A (Farm), B (Apartment building, Hut, Shack or other nonstandard dwelling, Single-family house), or C (Other type of dwelling)



505) TRAVELUS
Thinking about the most recent time you traveled to the United States from another country---please tell me which box shows the kind of transportation you took: A (farm), B (apartment bldg, hut, shack single family house), or C (other type of dwelling).



506) IMMSTATS
Thinking of your current immigration status right now, is that in Box A, B, or C? Box A (farm), B (apartment bldg, hut, shack single family house), or C (other type of dwelling). If it's in Box B, we do not want to know which specific category applies to you, and there will be no more questions about Box B (if respondent asks why, say: Because right now we are focusing on Box A.)



507) RUNDRSTD
Interviewer: By the time you handed hand card C4 to the respondent, did he or she appear to understand the 3-box answer format?



508) ROBJECT
Interviewer: Did the respondent object to or delay answering card C4?



509) GENEVIG1
Vignette set number given to respondent.(For complete wording of all 32 'nature versus nurture' vignettes please consult the GSS Cumulative Codebook for 2004) 



510) GENEVIG2
Vignette order given to respondent.



511) GENENVO1
Carol is a substantially overweight White woman. She has lost weight in the past but always gains it back again. Setup to personality, character and behavior questions--What percent of the person's behavior is influenced by the genes they inherit, and what percent is influenced by their learning experience?  The higher the number, the more you think the behavior is influenced by learning and experience; the lower the number, the more you think it is influenced by genes.



512) GENENVO2
David is an Asian man who drinks enough alcohol to become drunk several times a week. Often he can't remember what happened during these drinking episodes. Setup to personality, character and behavior questions--What percent of the person's behavior is influenced by the genes they inherit, and what percent is influenced by their learning experience?  The higher the number, the more you think the behavior is influenced by learning and experience; the lower the number, the more you think it is influenced by genes.



513) GENENVO3
Felicia is a very kind Hispanic woman. She never has anything bad to say about anybody, and can be counted on to help others. Setup to personality, character and BEHAVIOR questions--What percent of the person's behavior is influenced by the genes they inherit, and what percent is influenced by their learning experience?  The higher the number, the more you think the behavior is influenced by learning and experience; the lower the number, the more you think it is influenced by genes.



514) GENENVO4
George is a Black man who's a good all-around athlete. He was on the high school varsity swim team and still works out five times a week. Setup to personality, character and behavior questions--What percent of the person's behavior is influenced by the genes they inherit, and what percent is influenced by their learning experience?  The higher the number, the more you think the behavior is influenced by learning and experience; the lower the number, the more you think it is influenced by genes.



515) SATSELF
On the whole, I am satisfied with myself.



516) AFAILURE
All in all, I'm inclined to feel I'm a failure.



517) SLFRSPCT
I wish I could have more respect for myself.



518) OFWORTH
I feel that I'm a person of worth, at least equal to others.



519) NOGOOD
At times I think I am no good at all.



520) OPTIMIST
I'm always optimistic about my future.



521) PESSIMST
I hardly ever expect things to go my way.



522) NOTCOUNT
I rarely count on good things happening to me



523) MOREGOOD
Overall, I expect more good things to happen to me than bad.



524) OWNDOING
Please indicate which of the following statements comes closer to describing you by circling the appropriate letter: 1) I feel I have little influence over the things that happen to me. 2) What happens to me is largely my own doing.



525) GENEEXPS
For the following pair of questions, please circle the letter of the one that comes closer to your opinion: 1) Genes play the major role in determining people's personality. 2) It's people's experiences in life that determine their personality.



526) DEPNDABL
Please indicate how well the description applies to you--A dependable person. Is this a very good description, a good description, a fair description or not a very good description at all



527) SADBLUE
Please indicate how well the description applies to you--A person who often feels sad and blue. Is this a very good description, a good description, a fair description or not a very good description at all



528) ATHLETIC
Please indicate how well the description applies to you--An athletic person. Is this a very good description, a good description, a fair description or not a very good description at all



529) KINDPERS
Please indicate how well the description applies to you--A kind person. Is this a very good description, a good description, a fair description or not a very good description at all



530) SELFISH
Please indicate how well the description applies to you--selfish person. Is this a very good description, a good description, a fair description or not a very good description at all



531) INTRWGHT
Interviewer: Rate respondents weight without asking: If R is pregnant consider her weight aside from being pregnant.



532) AGAPE1
I would rather suffer myself than let the one I love suffer.



533) AGAPE2
I cannot be happy unless I place the one I love's happiness before my own.



534) AGAPE3
I am usually willing to sacrifice my own wishes to let the one I love achieve his/hers.



535) AGAPE4
I would endure all things for the sake of the one I love.



536) HGUNLAW
Please tell me whether you agree or disagree with the following statement: There should be more legal handguns in our society.



537) HGUNCRIM
Some people argue that more restrictions on handguns would decrease violent crime by making it harder for criminals to get handguns. Other people argue that more restrictions on handguns would increase violent crime by making it harder for law-abiding citizens to defend themselves with handguns. Which of the following statements is closer to your own opinion?



538) CRIMUP
Suppose research proves that more legal restrictions on handguns would increase violent crime. Which of these two reactions would be closer to your position? : 1) I would change my mind and oppose more restrictions on handguns. 2) I would still support more restrictions because I don't like the idea of private citizens arming themselves.



539) CRIMDOWN
Suppose research proves that more restrictions on handguns would reduce violent crime. Which of these two reactions would be closer to your position?: 1) I would change my mind and support more restrictions on handguns. 2) I would still oppose more restrictions because law-abiding citizens have a right to own handguns.



540) NUMRELEX
Thinking of the turning point in your life when you made a new and personal commitment to religion (and/or) the religious or spiritual experience that changed your life, how many such experiences have you had?



541) AGERELEX
How old were you when this occurred? Referring to turning point/change in spiritual life in above item NUMRELEX



542) CHNGREL
Did you change religions because of this experience? Referring to turning point/change in spiritual life in above item NUMRELEX



543) NUMRBORN
How many born-again experiences have you had? Referring to turning point/change in spiritual life in above item NUMRELEX



544) AGERBORN
How old were you when this occurred? Referring to turning point/change in spiritual life in above item NUMRELEX



545) CHNGRBRN
Did you change religions because of this experience?



546) ENTITY
Specific religious figures mentioned in religious change. Open ended question for how people who had undergone spiritual or religious change described their experiences. Codes: 1 = God; 2 = Christ, Jesus; 3 = God and Christ, Jesus both mentioned; 4 = Lord and mentions like 'Lord God' ; 5 = Other major religious figures like Buddha, Mohammed, Mary, specific saints, does not include ministers or other contemporary religious leaders; 6 = No mention of religious entity



547) EXPCHNG1
Occurrence or aspects of religious or spiritual change. First mention open ended question (see Note 23: Religious or Spiritual Change on the ARDA summary page)



548) EXPCHNG2
Occurrence or aspects of religious or spiritual change. Second Mention open ended question (see Note 23: Religious or Spiritual Change on the ARDA summary page)



549) EXPCHNG3
Occurrence or aspects of religious or spiritual change. Third Mention open ended question (see Note 23: Religious or Spiritual Change on the ARDA summary page)



550) WHYCHNG1
What led to, caused, or triggered the religious or spiritual change? First mention (see Note 24: Religious or Spiritual Change on the ARDA summary page)



551) WHYCHNG2
What led to, caused, or triggered the religious or spiritual change? Second mention (see Note 24: Religious or Spiritual Change on the ARDA summary page)



552) WHYCHNG3
What led to, caused, or triggered the religious or spiritual change? Third mention (See Note 24: Religious or Spiritual Change on the ARDA summary page)



553) CHANGED1
The consequences of the spiritual or religious change. First mention (see Note 25: Religious or Spiritual Change on the ARDA summary page)



554) CHANGED2
The consequences of the spiritual or religious change. Second mention (see Note 25: Religious or Spiritual Change on the ARDA summary page)



555) CHANGED3
The consequences of the spiritual or religious change. Third mention (see note 25 for specific codes)



556) RELALT1
To what extent did the religious/spiritual change you just told me about do the following? Altered your outlook on life?



557) RELALT2
Gave you a greater sense that your life was meaningful and significant)



558) RELALT3
Changed your goals in life



559) RELALT4
Positively affected your relations with other people



560) RELALT5
Changed your day-to-day activities



561) RELALT6
Changed your life overall



562) ALLOFLFE
You may experience the following in your daily life, if so how often. Experience a connection to all of life.



563) JOYLIFTS
During worship, or at other times when connecting to God, I feel joy which lifts me out of my daily concerns.



564) RELSPRT1
I find strength in my religion or spirituality.



565) RELSPRT2
I find comfort in my religion or spirituality



566) GODHELP
I ask for God's help in the midst of daily activities.



567) GODGUIDE
I feel guided by God in the midst of daily activities.



568) GODLVDIR
I feel Gods love for me, directly.



569) GODLVOTH
I feel Gods love for me, through others.



570) BLESSNGS
I feel thankful for my blessings.



571) CLOSRGOD
I desire to be closer to God or in union with Him.



572) GODCLOSE
In general, how close do you feel to God?



573) IDOLS
The statues and images in Catholic churches are idols.



574) ROSARIES
Catholic rosaries and holy medals are superstitious.



575) NOTTHINK
Catholics really are not permitted to think for themselves.



576) EVDRINK
Was there ever a time when you drank any alcoholic beverages?



577) DRINKYR
Thinking back over the last 12 months, about how regularly did you drink alcoholic beverages? Would you say that is was



578) DRINKDAY
Again, as you think back over the last 12 months, about how many drinks would you have on a typical day when you drank?



579) DRINK6UP
Now I would like to ask you some questions about your use of alcoholic beverages during the last 12 months. How often did you have 6 or more drinks of wine, beer, or liquor in a single day?



580) DRINKMAX
Think of all kinds of alcoholic beverages combined, that is, any combination of cans, bottles or glasses of beer; glasses of wine; or drinks containing liquor of any kind. During the last 12 months, what is the largest number of drinks you had on any single day? Was it:



581) DRINK12
During the last 12 months, how often did you have at least 12, but less than 20 drinks of any kind of alcoholic beverage in a single day, that is any combination of cans, bottles or glasses of beer, glasses of wine, or drinks containing liquor of any kind. Was it:



582) DRINK8
During the last 12 months, how often did you have at least 8, but less than 12 drinks of any kind of alcoholic beverage in a single day, that is any combination of cans, bottles or glasses of beer, glasses of wine, or drinks containing liquor of any kind. Was it:



583) DRINK5
During the last 12 months, how often did you have at least 5, but less than 8 drinks of any kind of alcoholic beverage in a single day, that is any combination of cans, bottles or glasses of beer, glasses of wine, or drinks containing liquor of any kind. Was it:



584) DRINK3
During the last 12 months, how often did you have at least 3, but less than 5 drinks of any kind of alcoholic beverage in a single day, that is any combination of cans, bottles or glasses of beer, glasses of wine, or drinks containing liquor of any kind. Was it:



585) DRINK1
During the last 12 months, how often did you have at least 1, but less than 3 drinks of any kind of alcoholic beverage in a single day, that is any combination of cans, bottles or glasses of beer, glasses of wine, or drinks containing liquor of any kind. Was it:



586) DRINKMIN
During the last 12 months, how often did you have at least a sip, but less than one full drink of any kind of alcoholic beverage in a single day, that is, beer, wine, or a drink containing liquor of any kind. Was it:



587) CHURCHTX
Besides belonging to a congregation or religion, do you belong to any church-related groups such as a fellowship or study group, a choir, board, or committee?



588) INFRMGRP
Are there any activities that you do with the same group of people on a regular basis even if the group doesn't have a name such as a bridge group, exercise group, or a group that meets to discuss individual or community problems?



589) TYPFRAT
Do you belong to more than one fraternal group?



590) TYPSERV
Do you belong to more than one service club?



591) TYPVET
Do you belong to more than one veterans club?



592) TYPPOLIT
Do you belong to more than one political club?



593) TYPUNION
Do you belong to more than one labor union?



594) TYPSPORT
Do you belong to more than one sport club?



595) TYPYOUTH
Do you belong to more than one youth group?



596) TYPSCHL
Do you belong to more than one school service club?



597) TYPHOBBY
Do you belong to more than one hobby or garden club?



598) TYPGREEK
Do you belong to more than one school fraternity or sorority?



599) TYPNAT
Do you belong to more than one nationality club?



600) TYPFARM
Do you belong to more than one farm organization?



601) TYPLIT
Do you belong to more than one literary, art, discussion, or study group?



602) TYPPROF
Do you belong to more than one professional or academic society?



603) TYPCHURH
Do you belong to more than one church-affiliated group?



604) TYPOTHER
Do you belong to more than one of any other club?



605) TYPINFRM
Do you belong to more than one informal group?



606) NUMFRAT
How many fraternal groups do you belong to?



607) NUMSERV
How many service clubs do you belong to?



608) NUMVET
How many veterans groups do you belong to?



609) NUMPOLIT
How many political clubs do you belong to?



610) NUMUNION
How many labor unions do you belong to?



611) NUMSPORT
How many sports groups do you belong to?



612) NUMYOUTH
How many youth groups do you belong to?



613) NUMSCHL
How many school service groups do you belong to?



614) NUMHOBBY
How many hobby or garden clubs do you belong to?



615) NUMGREEK
How many school fraternities or sororities do you belong to?



616) NUMNAT
How many nationality groups do you belong to?



617) NUMFARM
How many farm organizations do you belong to?



618) NUMLIT
How many literary, art, discussion, or study groups do you belong to?



619) NUMPROF
How many professional or academic societies do you belong to?



620) NUMCHURH
How many church-affiliated groups do you belong to?



621) NUMOTHER
How many of any other groups do you belong to?



622) NUMINFRM
How many INFRM groups do you belong to?



623) YRFRAT1
How many years have you been a member of: First fraternal group



624) YRFRAT2
How many years have you been a member of: Second fraternal group



625) YRFRAT3
How many years have you been a member of: Third fraternal group



626) YRFRAT4
How many years have you been a member of: Fourth fraternal group



627) YRSERV1
How many years have you been a member of: First service club



628) YRSERV2
How many years have you been a member of: Second service club



629) YRSERV3
How many years have you been a member of: Third service club



630) YRSERV4
How many years have you been a member of: Fourth service club



631) YRSERV5
How many years have you been a member of: Fifth service club



632) YRSERV6
How many years have you been a member of: Sixth service club



633) YRSERV7
How many years have you been a member of: Seventh service club



634) YRSERV8
How many years have you been a member of: Eighth service club



635) YRVET1
How many years have you been a member of: First veterans group



636) YRVET2
How many years have you been a member of: Second veterans group



637) YRVET3
How many years have you been a member of: Third veterans group



638) YRVET4
How many years have you been a member of: Fourth veterans group



639) YRVET5
How many years have you been a member of: Fifth veterans group



640) YRPOLIT1
How many years have you been a member of: First political club



641) YRPOLIT2
How many years have you been a member of: Second political club



642) YRPOLIT3
How many years have you been a member of: Third political club



643) YRUNION1
How many years have you been a member of: First labor union



644) YRUNION2
How many years have you been a member of: Second labor union



645) YRUNION3
How many years have you been a member of: Third labor union



646) YRUNION4
How many years have you been a member of: Fourth labor union



647) YRSPORT1
How many years have you been a member of: First sports group



648) YRSPORT2
How many years have you been a member of: Second sports group



649) YRSPORT3
How many years have you been a member of: Third sports group



650) YRSPORT4
How many years have you been a member of: Fourth sports group



651) YRSPORT5
How many years have you been a member of: Fifth sports group



652) YRSPORT6
How many years have you been a member of: Sixth sports group



653) YRYOUTH1
How many years have you been a member of: First youth group



654) YRYOUTH2
How many years have you been a member of: Second youth group



655) YRYOUTH3
How many years have you been a member of: Third youth group



656) YRYOUTH4
How many years have you been a member of: Fourth youth group



657) YRYOUTH5
How many years have you been a member of: Fifth youth group



658) YRSCHL1
How many years have you been a member of: First school service group



659) YRSCHL2
How many years have you been a member of: Second school service group



660) YRSCHL3
How many years have you been a member of: Third school service group



661) YRSCHL4
How many years have you been a member of: Fourth school service group



662) YRHOBBY1
How many years have you been a member of: First hobby or garden club



663) YRHOBBY2
How many years have you been a member of: Second hobby or garden club



664) YRHOBBY3
How many years have you been a member of: Third hobby or garden club



665) YRGREEK1
How many years have you been a member of: First school fraternity or sorority



666) YRGREEK2
How many years have you been a member of: Second school fraternity or sorority



667) YRGREEK3
How many years have you been a member of: Third school fraternity or sorority



668) YRNAT1
How many years have you been a member of: First nationality group



669) YRNAT2
How many years have you been a member of: Second nationality group



670) YRNAT3
How many years have you been a member of: Third nationality group



671) YRFARM1
How many years have you been a member of: First farm organization



672) YRFARM2
How many years have you been a member of: Second farm organization



673) YRFARM3
How many years have you been a member of: Third farm organization



674) YRLIT1
How many years have you been a member of: First literary, art, discussion, or study groups



675) YRLIT2
How many years have you been a member of: Second literary, art, discussion, or study groups



676) YRLIT3
How many years have you been a member of: Third literary, art, discussion, or study groups



677) YRLIT4
How many years have you been a member of: Fourth literary, art, discussion, or study groups



678) YRPROF1
How many years have you been a member of: First professional or academic society



679) YRPROF2
How many years have you been a member of: Second professional or academic society



680) YRPROF3
How many years have you been a member of: Third professional or academic society



681) YRPROF4
How many years have you been a member of: Fourth professional or academic society



682) YRPROF5
How many years have you been a member of: Fifth professional or academic society



683) YRPROF6
How many years have you been a member of: Sixth professional or academic society



684) YRCHURH1
How many years have you been a member of: First church affiliated group



685) YRCHURH2
How many years have you been a member of: Second church affiliated group



686) YRCHURH3
How many years have you been a member of: Third church affiliated group



687) YRCHURH4
How many years have you been a member of: Fourth church affiliated group



688) YRCHURH5
How many years have you been a member of: Fifth church affiliated group



689) YRCHURH6
How many years have you been a member of: Sixth church affiliated group



690) YROTHER1
How many years have you been a member of: First other group



691) YROTHER2
How many years have you been a member of: Second other group



692) YROTHER3
How many years have you been a member of: Third other group



693) YROTHER4
How many years have you been a member of: Fourth other group



694) YROTHER5
How many years have you been a member of: Fifth other group



695) YRINFRM1
How many years have you been a member of: First farm organization



696) YRINFRM2
How many years have you been a member of: Second farm organization



697) YRINFRM3
How many years have you been a member of: Third farm organization



698) YRINFRM4
How many years have you been a member of: Fourth farm organization



699) YRINFRM5
How many years have you been a member of: Fifth farm organization



700) MTFRAT1
Does the fraternal club meet in this area? First fraternal club



701) MTFRAT2
Does the fraternal club meet in this area? Second fraternal club



702) MTFRAT3
Does the fraternal club meet in this area? Third fraternal club



703) MTFRAT4
Does the fraternal club meet in this area? Fourth fraternal club



704) MTSERV1
Does the service club meet in this area? First service club



705) MTSERV2
Does the service club meet in this area? Second service club



706) MTSERV3
Does the service club meet in this area? Third service club



707) MTSERV4
Does the service club meet in this area? Fourth service club



708) MTSERV5
Does the service club meet in this area? Fifth service club



709) MTSERV6
Does the service club meet in this area? Sixth service club



710) MTSERV7
Does the service club meet in this area? Seventh service club



711) MTSERV8
Does the service club meet in this area? Eighth service club



712) MTVET1
Does the veterans group meet in this area? First veterans group



713) MTVET2
Does the veterans group meet in this area? Second veterans group



714) MTVET3
Does the veterans group meet in this area? Third veterans group



715) MTVET4
Does the veterans group meet in this area? Fourth veterans group



716) MTVET5
Does the veterans group meet in this area? Fifth veterans group



717) MTPOLIT1
Does the political club meet in this area? First political club



718) MTPOLIT2
Does the political club meet in this area? Second political club



719) MTPOLIT3
Does the political club meet in this area? Third political club



720) MTUNION1
Does the labor union meet in this area? First labor union



721) MTUNION2
Does the labor union meet in this area? Second labor union



722) MTUNION3
Does the labor union meet in this area? Third labor union



723) MTUNION4
Does the labor union meet in this area? Fourth labor union



724) MTSPORT1
Does the sports group meet in this area? First sports group



725) MTSPORT2
Does the sports group meet in this area? Second sports group



726) MTSPORT3
Does the sports group meet in this area? Third sports group



727) MTSPORT4
Does the sports group meet in this area? Fourth sports group



728) MTSPORT5
Does the sports group meet in this area? Fifth sports group



729) MTSPORT6
Does the sports group meet in this area? Sixth sports group



730) MTYOUTH1
Does the youth group meet in this area? First youth group



731) MTYOUTH2
Does the youth group meet in this area? Second youth group



732) MTYOUTH3
Does the youth group meet in this area? Third youth group



733) MTYOUTH4
Does the youth group meet in this area? Fourth youth group



734) MTYOUTH5
Does the youth group meet in this area? Fifth youth group



735) MTSCHL1
Does the school service group meet in this area? First school service group



736) MTSCHL2
Does the school service group meet in this area? Second school service group



737) MTSCHL3
Does the school service group meet in this area? Third school service group



738) MTSCHL4
Does the school service group meet in this area? Fourth school service group



739) MTHOBBY1
Does the hobby or garden club meet in this area? First hobby or garden club



740) MTHOBBY2
Does the hobby or garden club meet in this area? Second hobby or garden club



741) MTHOBBY3
Does the hobby or garden club meet in this area? Third hobby or garden club



742) MTGREEK1
Does the school fraternity or sorority meet in this area? First school fraternity or sorority



743) MTGREEK2
Does the school fraternity or sorority meet in this area? Second school fraternity or sorority



744) MTGREEK3
Does the school fraternity or sorority meet in this area? Third school fraternity or sorority



745) MTNAT1
Does the nationality group meet in this area? First nationality group



746) MTNAT2
Does the nationality group meet in this area? Second nationality group 



747) MTNAT3
Does the nationality group meet in this area? Third nationality group



748) MTFARM1
Does the farm organization meet in this area? First farm organization



749) MTFARM2
Does the farm organization meet in this area? Second farm organization



750) MTFARM3
Does the farm organization meet in this area? Third farm organization



751) MTLIT1
Does the literary, art, discussion, or study group meet in this area? First literary, art, discussion, or study group



752) MTLIT2
Does the literary, art, discussion, or study group meet in this area? Second literary, art, discussion, or study group



753) MTLIT3
Does the literary, art, discussion, or study group meet in this area? Third literary, art, discussion, or study group



754) MTLIT4
Does the literary, art, discussion, or study group meet in this area? Fourth literary, art, discussion, or study group



755) MTPROF1
Does the professional or academic society meet in this area? First professional or academic society



756) MTPROF2
Does the professional or academic society meet in this area? Second professional or academic society



757) MTPROF3
Does the professional or academic society meet in this area? Third professional or academic society



758) MTPROF4
Does the professional or academic society meet in this area? Fourth professional or academic society



759) MTPROF5
Does the professional or academic society meet in this area? Fifth professional or academic society



760) MTPROF6
Does the professional or academic society meet in this area? Sixth professional or academic society



761) MTCHURH1
Does the church-affiliated group meet in this area? First church-affiliated group



762) MTCHURH2
Does the church-affiliated group meet in this area? Second church-affiliated group



763) MTCHURH3
Does the church-affiliated group meet in this area? Third church-affiliated group



764) MTCHURH4
Does the church-affiliated group meet in this area? Fourth church-affiliated group



765) MTCHURH5
Does the church-affiliated group meet in this area? Fifth church-affiliated group



766) MTCHURH6
Does the church-affiliated group meet in this area? Sixth church-affiliated group



767) MTOTHER1
Do any other groups meet in this area? First other group



768) MTOTHER2
Do any other groups meet in this area? Second other group



769) MTOTHER3
Do any other groups meet in this area? Third other group (MTOTHER3)



770) MTOTHER4
Do any other groups meet in this area? Fourth other group



771) MTOTHER5
Do any other groups meet in this area? Fifth other group



772) MTINFRM1
Do any other informal groups meet in this area? First other group



773) MTINFRM2
Do any other informal groups meet in this area? Second other group



774) MTINFRM3
Do any other informal groups meet in this area? Third other group



775) MTINFRM4
Do any other informal groups meet in this area? Fourth other group



776) MTINFRM5
Do any other informal groups meet in this area? Fifth other group



777) GRPBOTH1
Do you and first name both belong to one or more of the same groups on the list?



778) GRPBOTH2
Do you and second name both belong to one or more of the same groups on the list?



779) GRPBOTH3
Do you and third name both belong to one or more of the same groups on the list?



780) GRPBOTH4
Do you and fourth name both belong to one or more of the same groups on the list?



781) GRPBOTH5
Do you and fifth name both belong to one or more of the same groups on the list?



782) FRSTMET1
Did you meet the first name in one of these groups or did you meet somewhere else?



783) FRSTMET2
Did you meet the second name in one of these groups or did you meet somewhere else?



784) FRSTMET3
Did you meet the third name in one of these groups or did you meet somewhere else?



785) FRSTMET4
Did you meet the fourth name in one of these groups or did you meet somewhere else?



786) FRSTMET5
Did you meet the fifth name in one of these groups or did you meet somewhere else?



787) YRSKWN1
How many years have you known the first name?



788) YRSKWN2
How many years have you known the second name?



789) YRSKWN3
How many years have you known the third name?



790) YRSKWN4
How many years have you known the fourth name?



791) YRSKWN5
How many years have you known the fifth name?



792) POLEFF11
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: People like me don't have any say about what the government does



793) POSSLQ
Which of these statements applies to you?: married and living with your husband/wife; not married but living with a partner; married or partnered, but not living in the same household; not married/no partner.



794) HELPHWRK
During the past 12 months, how often have you done any of the following things for people you know personally, such as relatives, friends, neighbors or other acquaintances? -- Helped someone outside of your household with housework or shopping



795) LENTTO
During the past 12 months, how often have you done any of the following things for people you know personally, such as relatives, friends, neighbors or other acquaintances? -- Lent quite a bit of money to another person



796) TALKEDTO
During the past 12 months, how often have you done any of the following things for people you know personally, such as relatives, friends, neighbors or other acquaintances? -- Spent time talking with someone who was a bit down or depressed



797) HELPJOB
During the past 12 months, how often have you done any of the following things for people you know personally, such as relatives, friends, neighbors or other acquaintances? -- Helped somebody to find a job



798) GOODLIFE
The way things are in America, people like me and my family have a good chance of improving our standard of living--do you agree or disagree?



799) MARHOMO
Homosexual couples should have the right to marry one another--do you agree or disagree?



800) MEOVRWRK
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: Family life often suffers because men concentrate too much on their work.



801) LOCALNUM
Asked of those whose employers have more than one physical location: About how many people work at the location where you work? (Count part-time as well as full-time employees in all areas, departments and buildings.)



802) GODCHNGE
Which best describes your beliefs about God: 1) I don't believe..., and I never have; 2) I don't believe..., but I used to; 3) I believe..., but I didn't used to; 4) I believe..., and I always have.



803) RELEXPER
Has there ever been a turning point in your life when you made a new and personal commitment to religion?



804) BEFAIR
How often do you think that people would try to take advantage of you if they got the chance and how often would they try to be fair?  Would they...1. Try to take advantage almost all of the time, 2. Try to take advantage most of the time, 3. Try to be fair most of the time, or 4. Try to be fair almost all of the time



805) CANTRUST
Generally speaking, would you say that people can be trusted or that you can't be too careful in dealing with people?  1.  People can almost always be trusted, 2. People can usually be trusted, 3. You usually can't be too careful in dealing with people, 4. You almost always can't be too careful in dealing with people



806) CLSETOWN
How close do you feel to... Your town or city



807) CLSESTAT
How close do you feel to... Your state



808) CLSEUSA
How close do you feel to... America



809) CLSENOAM
How close do you feel to... North America



810) AMBORNIN
How important for being truly American does respondent consider the following...To have been born in America



811) AMCIT
How important for being truly American does respondent consider the following...To have American citizenship



812) AMLIVED
How important for being truly American does respondent consider the following...To have lived in America for most of one's life



813) AMENGLSH
How important for being truly American does respondent consider the following...To be able to speak English



814) AMCHRSTN
How important for being truly American does respondent consider the following...To be a Christian



815) AMGOVT
How important for being truly American does respondent consider the following...To respect America's political institutions and laws



816) AMFEEL
How important for being truly American does respondent consider the following...To feel American



817) AMCITIZN
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: I would rather be a citizen of America than of any other country in the world



818) AMSHAMED
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: There are some things about America today that make me feel ashamed of America



819) BELIKEUS
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: The world would be a better place if people from other countries were more like the Americans



820) AMBETTER
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: Generally speaking, America is a better country than most other countries



821) IFWRONG
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: People should support their country even if the country is in the wrong



822) AMSPORTS
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: When my country does well in international sports, it makes me proud to be an American



823) PROUDDEM
How proud is respondent of...The way democracy works



824) PROUDPOL
How proud is respondent of... U.S. political influence in the world



825) PROUDECO
How proud is respondent of...America's economic achievements



826) PROUDSSS
How proud is respondent of... U.S. social security system



827) PROUDSCI
How proud is respondent of...U.S. scientific and technological achievements



828) PROUDSPT
How proud is respondent of...U.S. achievements in sports



829) PROUDART
How proud is respondent of...: U.S. achievements in the arts and literature



830) PROUDMIL
How proud is respondent of...: America's armed forces



831) PROUDHIS
How proud is respondent of...: U.S. history



832) PROUDGRP
How proud is respondent of...: U.S. fair and equal treatment of all groups in society



833) IMPORTS
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: America should limit the import of foreign products in order to protect its national economy



834) WRLDGOVT
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: For certain problems, like environmental pollution, international bodies should have the right to enforce solutions



835) AMOWNWAY
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: America should follow its own interests, even if this leads to conflicts with other nations



836) FORLAND
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: Foreigners should not be allowed to buy land in America



837) AMTV
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: American television should give preference to American films and programs



838) AMCULT
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: It is impossible for people who do not share American customs and traditions to become fully American



839) MINCULT
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: Ethnic minorities should be given government assistance to preserve their customs and traditions



840) MELTPOT1
Some people say that it is better for a country if different racial and ethnic groups maintain their distinct customs and traditions. Others say that it is better if these groups adapt and blend into the larger society. Which of these views comes closer to your own?



841) IMMCRIME
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: Immigrants increase crime rates



842) IMMAMECO
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: Immigrants are generally good for America's economy



843) IMMJOBS
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: Immigrants take jobs away from people who were born in America



844) LETIN1
Do you think the number of immigrants to America nowadays should be...



845) SPKHOME1
First language respondent says he or she speaks at home



846) SPKHOME2
Second language respondent says he or she speaks at home



847) CITIZEN
Are you a citizen of America?



848) PARCIT
At the time of your birth, were both, one or neither of your parents citizens of America?



849) ETHCLOSE
How close do you feel to your ethnic or racial group?



850) NAFTA1
How much have you heard or read about the North American Free Trade Agreement or NAFTA?



851) SOCID1
We are all part of different groups. Some are more important to us than others when we think of ourselves. In general, which in the following list is most important to you in describing who you are? (SOCID1) (1=Current occupation, 2=Race or ethnic background, 3=Gender, 4= Age group, 5=Religion, 6=Political party, 7=Nationality, 8=Family or marital status, 9=Social class, 10=Region)



852) SOCID2
And the second most important? (From previous question:  We are all part of different groups. Some are more important to us than others when we think of ourselves. In general, which in the following list is most important to you in describing who you are?)



853) SOCID3
And the third most important? (From previous question:  We are all part of different groups. Some are more important to us than others when we think of ourselves. In general, which in the following list is most important to you in describing who you are?)



854) AMANCSTR
Some people say that the following things are important for being truly American. Others say they are not important. How important do you think each of the following is: to have American ancestry



855) LESSPRD
I am often less proud of America than I would like to be.



856) INTLINCS
Large international companies are doing more and more damage to local businesses in America.



857) FREETRDE
Free trade leads to better products becoming available in America.



858) DECSORGS
In general, America should follow decisions of international organizations to which it belongs, even if the government does not agree with them.



859) POWRORGS
International organizations are taking away too much power from the American government.



860) FORCULT
Increased exposure to foreign films, music, and books is damaging our national and local cultures.



861) INTERNET
A benefit of the Internet is that it makes information available to more and more people worldwide.



862) IMMIMP
Immigrants improve American society by bringing in new ideas and cultures.



863) IMMCOSTS
Government spends too much money assisting immigrants.



864) KIDSHERE
Children born in America of parents who are not citizens should have the right to become American citizens.



865) KIDSAWAY
Children born abroad should have the right to become American citizens if at least one of their parents is an American citizen.



866) IMMRGHTS
Legal immigrants to America who are not citizens should have the same rights as American citizens.



867) AMPROUD1
How proud are you of being American?



868) NAFTA2A
Generally speaking, would you say that America benefits or does not benefit from being a member of NAFTA?



869) NAFTA3
America should follow NAFTA decisions, even if it does not agree with them.



870) VOTEELEC
There are different opinions as to what it takes to be a good citizen. As far as you are concerned personally on a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--Always to vote in elections.



871) PAYTAXES
There are different opinions as to what it takes to be a good citizen. As far as you are concerned personally on a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--Never to try to evade taxes.



872) OBEYLAWS
There are different opinions as to what it takes to be a good citizen. As far as you are concerned personally on a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--Always to obey laws and regulations.



873) WATCHGOV
There are different opinions as to what it takes to be a good citizen. As far as you are concerned personally on a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--To keep watch on the actions of government.



874) ACTASSOC
There are different opinions as to what it takes to be a good citizen. As far as you are concerned personally on a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--To be active in social or political associations.



875) OTHREASN
There are different opinions as to what it takes to be a good citizen. As far as you are concerned personally on a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--To try to understand the reasoning of people with other opinions.



876) BUYPOL
There are different opinions as to what it takes to be a good citizen. As far as you are concerned personally on a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--To choose products for political, ethical or environmental reasons, even if they cost a bit more.



877) HELPUSA
There are different opinions as to what it takes to be a good citizen. As far as you are concerned personally on a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--To help people in America who are worse off than yourself.



878) HELPWRLD
There are different opinions as to what it takes to be a good citizen. As far as you are concerned personally on a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--To help people in the rest of the world who are worse off than yourself.



879) MILSERVE
There are different opinions as to what it takes to be a good citizen. As far as you are concerned personally on a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--To be willing to serve in the military at a time of need.



880) RELMEET
Should religious extremists be allowed to hold public meetings?



881) REVMEET
Should people who want to overthrow the government by force be allowed to hold public meetings?



882) RACMEET
Should people prejudiced against any racial or ethnic group be allowed to hold public meetings?



883) SIGNDPET
Here are some forms of political and social action that people can take. Please indicate, for each one, (1) whether you have done any of these things in the past year, (2) have done it in the more distant past, (3) have not done it but might do it, (4) or have not done it and would never, under any circumstances, do it--Signed a petition.



884) AVOIDBUY
Here are some forms of political and social action that people can take. Please indicate, for each one, (1) whether you have done any of these things in the past year, (2) have done it in the more distant past, (3) have not done it but might do it, (4) or have not done it and would never, under any circumstances, do it--Boycotted, or deliberately bought, certain products for political, ethical or environmental reasons.



885) JOINDEM
Here are some forms of political and social action that people can take. Please indicate, for each one, (1) whether you have done any of these things in the past year, (2) have done it in the more distant past, (3) have not done it but might do it, (4) or have not done it and would never, under any circumstances, do it--Took part in a demonstration.



886) ATTRALLY
Here are some forms of political and social action that people can take. Please indicate, for each one, (1) whether you have done any of these things in the past year, (2) have done it in the more distant past, (3) have not done it but might do it, (4) or have not done it and would never, under any circumstances, do it--Attended a political meeting or rally.



887) CNTCTGOV
Here are some forms of political and social action that people can take. Please indicate, for each one, (1) whether you have done any of these things in the past year, (2) have done it in the more distant past, (3) have not done it but might do it, (4) or have not done it and would never, under any circumstances, do it--Contacted, or attempted to contact, a politician or a civil servant to express your views.



888) POLFUNDS
Here are some forms of political and social action that people can take. Please indicate, for each one, (1) whether you have done any of these things in the past year, (2) have done it in the more distant past, (3) have not done it but might do it, (4) or have not done it and would never, under any circumstances, do it--Donated money or raised funds for a social or political activity.



889) USEMEDIA
Here are some forms of political and social action that people can take. Please indicate, for each one, (1) whether you have done any of these things in the past year, (2) have done it in the more distant past, (3) have not done it but might do it, (4) or have not done it and would never, under any circumstances, do it--Contacted or appeared in the media to express your views.



890) INTERPOL
Here are some forms of political and social action that people can take. Please indicate, for each one, (1) whether you have done any of these things in the past year, (2) have done it in the more distant past, (3) have not done it but might do it, (4) or have not done it and would never, under any circumstances, do it--Joined an Internet political forum or discussion group.



891) GRPPARTY
People sometimes belong to different kinds of groups or associations. For each type of group, please indicate whether you (1) Belong and actively participate, (2) belong but don't actively participate, (3) used to belong but do not any more, (4) have never belonged to it--A political party.



892) GRPWORK
People sometimes belong to different kinds of groups or associations. For each type of group, please indicate whether you (1) Belong and actively participate, (2) belong but don't actively participate, (3) used to belong but do not any more, (4) have never belonged to it--A trade union, business, or professional association.



893) GRPRELIG
People sometimes belong to different kinds of groups or associations. For each type of group, please indicate whether you (1) Belong and actively participate, (2) belong but don't actively participate, (3) used to belong but do not any more, (4) have never belonged to it--A church or other religious organization.



894) GRPSPRTS
People sometimes belong to different kinds of groups or associations. For each type of group, please indicate whether you (1) Belong and actively participate, (2) belong but don't actively participate, (3) used to belong but do not any more, (4) have never belonged to it--A sports, leisure or cultural group.



895) GRPOTHER
People sometimes belong to different kinds of groups or associations. For each type of group, please indicate whether you (1) Belong and actively participate, (2) belong but don't actively participate, (3) used to belong but do not any more, (4) have never belonged to it--Another voluntary association.



896) SOLOK
There are different opinions about people's rights in a democracy. On a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--That all citizens have an adequate standard of living.



897) RGHTSMIN
There are different opinions about people's rights in a democracy. On a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--That government authorities respect and protect the rights of minorities.



898) EQTREAT
There are different opinions about people's rights in a democracy. On a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--That government authorities treat everybody equally regardless of their position in society.



899) CITVIEWS
There are different opinions about people's rights in a democracy. On a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--That politicians take into account the views of citizens before making decisions.



900) POLOPTS
There are different opinions about people's rights in a democracy. On a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--That people be given more opportunities to participate in public decision-making.



901) OPPSEGOV
There are different opinions about people's rights in a democracy. On a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is not at all important and 7 is very important, how important is it--That citizens may engage in acts of civil disobedience when they oppose government actions.



902) POLEFF18
I don't think government cares much what people like me think.



903) POLEFF19
I feel I have a pretty good understanding of the important political issues facing America.



904) POLEFF20
I think most people in America are better informed about politics and government than I am.



905) ACTLAW
Suppose a law were being considered by the Congress that you considered to be unjust or harmful. If such a case arose, how likely is it that you, acting along or together with others, would be able to try to do something about it?



906) AFFCTLAW
If you made such an effort, how likely is it that the Congress would give serious attention to your demands?



907) POLINT1
How interested would you say you personally are in politics?



908) GOVDOOK
Most of the time we can trust people in government to do what is right.



909) POLGREED
Most politicians are in politics only for what they can get out of it personally.



910) DISCPOL
When you get together with your friends, relatives or fellow workers, how often do you discuss politics?



911) CHNGEOTH
When you hold a strong opinion about politics, how often do you try to persuade your friends, relatives or fellow workers to share your views?



912) POWERUN
Thinking about the United Nations, which comes closest to your view? 1) The United Nations has too much power. 2) The United Nations has about the right amount of power. 3) The United Nations has too little power.



913) GOVNGOS
Which of these two statements comes closer to your view: 1) In international organizations, decisions should be left to national government representatives. 2) In international organizations, citizens organizations should be involved directly in the decision-making process.



914) UNRGHTS
Which of these two statements comes closer to your view? 1) If a country seriously violates human rights, the United Nations should intervene.  2) Even if human rights are seriously violated, the country's sovereignty must be respected, and the United Nations should not intervene.



915) POLACTVE
Political parties encourage people to become active in politics.



916) CHOICES
Political parties do not give voters real policy choices.



917) REFRNDMS
Referendums are a good way to decide important political questions.



918) ELECVOTE
Thinking of the last national election in America, how honest was it regarding the counting and reporting of the votes?



919) ELECFAIR
Thinking of the last national election in America, how fair was it regarding the opportunities of the candidates and parties to campaign?



920) SERVEPEO
Thinking of government administrators in America, how committed are they to serve the people?



921) FIXMISTK
When the government administrators make serious mistakes in America how likely is it that they will be corrected?



922) CORRUPTN
How widespread do you think corruption is in the public service in America?



923) DEMTODAY
How well does democracy work in America today?



924) DEM10PST
And what about 10 years ago? How well did democracy work in America then?



925) DEM10FUT
And how about 10 years from now? How well do you think democracy will work in America then?



926) DEMRGHTS
Here are some views regarding Americas political system. Which of these statements is closer to your view? (1) Under no circumstance should democratic rights be restricted by the government, or (2) When the government thinks it is necessary it should restrict democratic rights



927) CREATION
After I read off three statements, please tell me which one comes closest to your views about the origin and development of man. 1) God created man pretty much in his present form at one time within the last 10,000 years. 2) Man has developed over millions of years from less advanced forms of life. God had no part in this process. 3) Man has developed over millions of years from less advanced forms of life, but God guided this process, including mans creation.



928) SCITESTY
Human beings developed from earlier species of animals.



929) EXCLDIMM
Do you agree or disagree with this statement: America should take stronger measures to exclude illegal immigrants.



930) PARTNERS
How many sex partners have you had in the last 12 months?



931) MATESEX
Was one of the partners your husband or wife or regular sexual partner?



932) FRNDSEX
If you had other partners, please indicate all categories that apply to them. Close personal friend



933) ACQNTSEX
Had sex with: Neighbor, Co-Worker, or long-term acquaintance



934) PIKUPSEX
Had sex with: Casual date or pick-up



935) PAIDSEX
Had Sex With: Person you paid for sex



936) OTHERSEX
Had sex with: Other



937) SEXSEX
Have your sex partners in the last 12 months been exclusively male, both male and female, exclusively female.



938) SEXFREQ
About how often did you have sex during the last 12 months?



939) NUWOMEN
Now thinking about the time since your 18th birthday (including the past 12 months) how many female partners have you had sex with?  [994=Several; 995=Many/lots; 996=NA; 997=Refused; 998=Don't Know; 999=No Answer]



940) NUMMEN
Now thinking about the time since your 18th birthday (including the past 12 months) how many male partners have you had sex with? [994=Several; 995=Many/lots; 996=NA; 997=Refused; 998=Don't Know; 999=No Answer]



941) PARTNRS5
Now think about the past five years-- the time since February/March 1986, and including the past 12 months, how many sex partners have you had in that five year period?



942) SEXSEX5
Have your sex partners in the last five years been...



943) EVPDSEX
Thinking about the time since your 18th birthday, have you ever had sex with a person you paid or who paid you for sex?



944) EVSTRAY
Have you ever had sex with someone other than your husband or wife while you were married?



945) CONDOM
The last time you had sex, was a condom used?  By 'sex' we mean vaginal, oral, or anal sex.



946) RELATSEX
The last time you had sex, was it with someone you were in an on-going relationship with, or was it with someone else?



947) EVIDU
Have you ever, even once, taken any drugs by injection with a needle (like heroin, cocaine, amphetamines, or steroids)...Do not include anything you took under a doctor's orders.



948) IDU30
How long has it been since you last used a needle to inject drugs?



949) EVCRACK
Have you ever, even once, used 'crack' cocaine in chunk or rock form?



950) CRACK30
How long has it been since you last used 'crack' cocaine in chunk or rock form?



951) GENETST1
How much would you say you have heard or read about genetic testing?



952) GENEGOO2
Some people say that genetic testing may cause trouble.  Others think it is a wonderful medical advance.  Based on what you know, do you think genetic testing will do more harm than good or more good than harm?



953) GENESELF
Today, tests are being developed that make it possible to detect serious genetic defects before a baby is born. But so far, it is impossible either to treat or to correct most of them. If (you/your partner) were pregnant, would you want (her) to have a test to find out if the baby has any serious genetic defects?



954) GENEABRT
Suppose a test shows the baby has a serious genetic defect. Would you (yourself want to/want your partner to) have an abortion if a test shows the baby has a serious genetic defect?



955) PROB1
What are the most important problems that you and members of your household have had during the last 12 months? First problem mentioned. (See Note 15: Important problems on the ARDA summary page)



956) PROBLEM2
Second problem mentioned. (See Note 15: Important problems on the ARDA summary page)



957) PROBLEM3
Third problem mentioned. (See Note 15: Important problems on the ARDA summary page)



958) PROBLEM4
Fourth problem mentioned. (See Note 15: Important Problems on the ARDA summary page)



959) HLTH1
Now, I'm going to ask you about various events and conditions that happen to people. I'm interested in those that happened to you during the last 12 months, that is since February/March, 1990. As I ask you about the specific events , please think carefully, so I can record things accurately. A. First, thinking about health related matters, did any of the following happen to you since February/March, 1990? Ill enough to go to a doctor.



960) HLTH2
Underwent counseling for mental or emotional problems.



961) HLTH3
Infertility or unable to have a baby.



962) HLTH4
Had a drinking problem (e.g., frequently drunk, suffered from alcoholism).



963) HLTH5
Used illegal drugs (e.g., marijuana, cocaine, pills).



964) HLTH6
Your (Husband/wife)/partner was a patient in a hospital, sanatorium, convalescent or nursing home (apart from have a baby).



965) HLTH7
A child of yours was a patient in a hospital, sanatorium, convalescent or nursing home (apart from having a baby).



966) HLTH8
Child on drugs or had drinking problem.



967) HLTH9
A death of a close friend.



968) HLTH10
During the past twelve months, that is since (current month) 2003, have you, yourself, been a patient in a hospital, sanatorium, convalescent or nursing home (apart from having a baby)?



969) HLTH11
During the past twelve months, were you unable to work at your job or carry on your regular activities for one month or more because of illness or injury?



970) HLTH12
Did any deaths occur during the past year, that is since (Current month) 2003? Who was that? Husband or wife



971) HLTH13
Did any deaths occur during the past year, that is since (Current month) 2003? Who was that? Child



972) HLTH14
Did any deaths occur during the past year, that is since (Current month) 2003? Who was that? Father or mother



973) WORK1
Second, what about work-related matters? Did any of the following happen to you since February/March, 1990? Fired or permanently laid-off.



974) WORK2
Demoted or switched to a less favorable position.



975) WORK3
A cut in pay (including reduced hours).



976) WORK4
Passed over for promotion.



977) WORK5
Serious trouble with your boss.



978) WORK6
Your own business (farm or professional office) lost money or failed.



979) WORK7
Your (husband/wife)/partner was fired or permanently laid-off.



980) WORK8
Your (husband/wife)/partner had a cut in pay (including reduced hours).



981) WORK9
Your (husband/wife)/partner was unemployed and looking for work for a month or more.



982) WORK10
During the past twelve months, that is since (current month) 2003, were you unemployed and looking for work for as long as a month?



983) FINAN1
Did any of the following financial matters happen to you during the last year: Went bankrupt (declared personal bankruptcy).



984) FINAN2
Car, household appliances, or furniture repossessed.



985) FINAN3
Pawned or sold-off valuables to make ends meet.



986) FINAN4
Pressured to pay bills by stores, creditors, or bill collectors.



987) FINAN5
Major worsening of your financial condition.



988) HRDSHP1
Now I am going to ask about specific hardships. Did any of the following occur to you since February/March, 1990? Fell behind in paying your rent or mortgage.



989) HRDSHP2
Evicted from your apartment/house.



990) HRDSHP3
Had your utilities (water, heat, electricity) shut off.



991) HRDSHP4
Unable to purchase needed food.



992) HRDSHP5
Unable to afford needed medical care.



993) HRDSHP6
Lacked health insurance coverage (e.g. Medicare, Medicaid, Blue Cross, and HMO, etc.).



994) HRDSHP7
Had to temporarily live with others or in a shelter or 'on the street.'



995) FAMPER1
What about family and personal relationships? During the last year, did you...Have serious trouble with your (husband/wife)/partner.



996) FAMPER2
Separate from your (husband/wife)/partner.



997) FAMPER3
Break up with a steady boyfriend/girlfriend or fianc(e).



998) FAMPER4
Have serious trouble with a child.



999) FAMPER5
Have serious trouble with a close friend.



1000) FAMPER6
Did you obtain a divorce or separation during the last 12 months, that is since (current month) 2003?



1001) LAW1
Next, did any of the following criminal or legal events occur to you since February/March, 1990. A robbery (e.g. a mugging or stick-up).



1002) LAW2
A personal assault (e.g. being beaten up, hit, or attacked with a weapon).



1003) LAW3
Your home burglarized or broken into.



1004) LAW4
Accused of something for which a person might be sent to jail.



1005) LAW5
Arrested.



1006) LAW6
Sued in a civil (non-criminal) case.



1007) LAW7
Your child was arrested or got in trouble with the law.



1008) LIVE1
What about things concerning where you live? During the last year, did any of the following happen? Your home destroyed or heavily damaged due to fire, flood, or other disaster.



1009) LIVE2
Your home in poor condition (e.g. leaks, broken windows, insects, heating breakdowns, exposed wires, etc.).



1010) LIVE3
Major home repairs (e.g. replaced furnace, new roof).



1011) LIVE4
Serious trouble with a landlord or building manager.



1012) OTH1
And finally, since February/March, 1990, did any of the following occur to you? Discriminated against because of your race or nationality, sex, or for a similar reason.



1013) OTH2
Unable to get into school or training program.



1014) OTH3
Child had serious trouble in school (e.g., failing, dropping out, expelled, held back)



1015) OTH4
Needed, but unable to use, public transportation to get to work, shop, etc.



1016) OTH5
Did not have a car (one month or more).



1017) EXTRA1
Aside from the things we've already covered, what other important problems did you or members of your household have during the last 12 months? First mention. (See Note 16: Other Important Problems on the ARDA summary page)



1018) EXTRA2
Aside from the things we've already covered, what other important problems did you or members of your household have during the last 12 months? Second mention. (See Note 16: Other Important Problems on the ARDA summary page)



1019) REALINC
Family income on 1972-1991 surveys in constant dollars (base=1986)



1020) REALRINC
Respondent's income on 1972-1991 surveys in constant dollars (base=1986)



1021) ETHNIC
From what countries or part of the world did your ancestors come?



1022) ETH1
First ethnicity mentioned



1023) ETH2
Second ethnicity mentioned



1024) ETH3
Third ethnicity mentioned



1025) ETHNUM
Number of ethnicities named and picked



1026) HISPANIC
Are you Spanish, Hispanic, or Latino/Latina? Which group are you from?



1027) RACECEN1
What is your race? Indicate one or more races that you consider yourself to be -- First mention



1028) RACECEN2
What is your race? Indicate one or more races that you consider yourself to be -- Second mention



1029) RACECEN3
What is your race? Indicate one or more races that you consider yourself to be -- Third mention



1030) DWELLING
Dwelling type



1031) DWELOWN
(Do you/Does your family) own your (home/apartment), pay rent, or what?



1032) WORDA
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words--you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them: Word A



1033) WORDB
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words--you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them: Word B



1034) WORDC
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words--you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them: Word C



1035) WORDD
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words--you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them: Word D



1036) WORDE
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words--you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them: Word E



1037) WORDF
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words--you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them: Word F



1038) WORDG
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words--you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them: Word G



1039) WORDH
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words--you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them: Word H



1040) WORDI
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words--you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them: Word I



1041) WORDJ
We would like to know something about how people go about guessing words they do not know. On this card are listed some words--you may know some of them, and you may not know quite a few of them: Word J



1042) WORDSUM
Total number of correct words.



1043) RELATE1
Relationship of first person to head of household.



1044) GENDER1
Gender of first person.



1045) OLD1
Age of first person.



1046) MAR1
Marital status of first person.



1047) AWAY1
Is the first person staying somewhere else right now?



1048) WHERE1
Where is the first person staying?



1049) RELATE2
Relationship of second person to head of household.



1050) GENDER2
Gender of second person.



1051) OLD2
Age of second person.



1052) MAR2
Marital status of second person.



1053) AWAY2
Is the second person staying somewhere else right now?



1054) WHERE2
Where is the second person staying?



1055) RELATE3
Relationship of third person to head of household.



1056) GENDER3
Gender of third person.



1057) OLD3
Age of third person.



1058) MAR3
Marital status of third person.



1059) AWAY3
Is the third person staying somewhere else right now?



1060) WHERE3
Where is the third person staying?



1061) RELATE4
Relationship of fourth person to head of household



1062) GENDER4
Gender of fourth person.



1063) OLD4
Age of fourth person.



1064) MAR4
Marital status of fourth person.



1065) AWAY4
Is the fourth person staying somewhere else right now?



1066) WHERE4
Where is the fourth person staying?



1067) RELATE5
Relationship of fifth person to head of household.



1068) GENDER5
Gender of fifth person.



1069) OLD5
Age of fifth person.



1070) MAR5
Marital status of fifth person.



1071) AWAY5
Is the fifth person staying somewhere else right now?



1072) WHERE5
Where is the fifth person staying?



1073) RELATE6
Relationship of sixth person to head of household.



1074) GENDER6
Gender of sixth person.



1075) OLD6
Age of sixth person.



1076) MAR6
Marital status of sixth person.



1077) AWAY6
Is the sixth person staying somewhere else right now?



1078) WHERE6
Where is the sixth person staying?



1079) RELATE7
Relationship of seventh person to head of household.



1080) GENDER7
Gender of seventh person.



1081) OLD7
Age of seventh person.



1082) MAR7
Marital status of seventh person.



1083) AWAY7
Is the seventh person staying somewhere else right now?



1084) WHERE7
Where is the seventh person staying?



1085) RELATE8
Relationship of eighth person to head of household.



1086) GENDER8
Gender of eighth person.



1087) OLD8
Age of eighth person.



1088) MAR8
Marital status of eighth person.



1089) RELATE9
Relationship of ninth person to head of household.



1090) GENDER9
Gender of ninth person.



1091) OLD9
Age of ninth person.



1092) MAR9
Marital status of ninth person.



1093) RELATE10
Relationship of tenth person to head of household.



1094) GENDER10
Gender of tenth person.



1095) OLD10
Age of tenth person.



1096) MAR10
Marital status of tenth person.



1097) RELATE11
Relationship of eleventh person to head of household.



1098) GENDER11
Gender of eleventh person.



1099) OLD11
Age of eleventh person.



1100) MAR11
Marital status of eleventh person.



1101) AWAY11
Is the eleventh person staying somewhere else right now?



1102) WHERE11
Where is the eleventh person staying?



1103) RELHHD1
Relationship of first person to head of household, revised



1104) RELHHD2
Relationship of second person to head of household, revised



1105) RELHHD3
Relationship of third person to head of household, revised



1106) RELHHD4
Relationship of fourth person to head of household, revised



1107) RELHHD5
Relationship of fifth person to head of household, revised



1108) RELHHD6
Relationship of sixth person to head of household, revised



1109) RELHHD7
Relationship of seventh person to head of household, revised



1110) RELHHD8
Relationship of eighth person to head of household, revised



1111) RELHHD9
Relationship of ninth person to head of household, revised



1112) RELHHD10
Relationship of tenth person to head of household, revised



1113) RELHHD11
Relationship of eleventh person to head of household, revised



1114) HEFINFO
Number in family of person who was household informant. (i.e. who provided information on household members).



1115) HHRACE
Race of household.



1116) RESPNUM
Number in family of respondent.



1117) HHTYPE
Household type



1118) HHTYPE1
Household type condensed



1119) FAMGEN
Number of family generations in household.



1120) RPLACE
Respondent's relationship to head.



1121) RVISITOR
Is respondent a visitor?



1122) VISITORS
Number of visitors in household.



1123) RELHH1
Relationship of person 1 to head of household



1124) RELHH2
Relationship of person 2 to head of household



1125) RELHH3
Relationship of person 3 to head of household



1126) RELHH4
Relationship of person 4 to head of household



1127) RELHH5
Relationship of person 5 to head of household



1128) RELHH6
Relationship of person 6 to head of household



1129) RELHH7
Relationship of person 7 to head of household



1130) RELHH8
Relationship of person 8 to head of household



1131) RELHH9
Relationship of person 9 to head of household



1132) RELHH10
Relationship of person 10 to head of household



1133) RELHH11
Relationship of person 11 to head of household



1134) RELSP1
Relationship of person 1 to spouse of household head



1135) RELSP2
Relationship of person 2 to spouse of household head



1136) RELSP3
Relationship of person 3 to spouse of household head



1137) RELSP4
Relationship of person 4 to spouse of household head



1138) RELSP5
Relationship of person 5 to spouse of household head



1139) RELSP6
Relationship of person 6 to spouse of household head



1140) RELSP7
Relationship of person 7 to spouse of household head



1141) RELSP8
Relationship of person 8 to spouse of household head



1142) RELSP9
Relationship of person 9 to spouse of household head



1143) RELSP10
Relationship of person 10 to spouse of household head



1144) RELSP11
Relationship of person 11 to spouse of household head



1145) DATEINTV
Date of interview (first digit is month, last two digits are date)



1146) SPISCO68
Occupation of respondent's spouse (International Standard Classification Codes-1968) (See Note 3: on the ARDA summary page)



1147) ISCO681
Respondent's occupation (International Standard Classification Codes 1968) (See Note 3: on the ARDA summary page)



1148) PAISC681
Occupation of respondent's father (International Standard Classification Codes 1968) (See Note 3: on the ARDA summary page



1149) MAISC681
Occupation of respondent's mother (International Standard Classification Codes 1968) (See Note 3: on the ARDA summary page)



1150) SPISC681
Occupation of respondent's spouse (International Standard Classification Code 1968) (See Note 3: on the ARDA summary page)



1151) ISCO88
Respondent's occupation, 1988 Census



1152) PAISCO88
Respondent's father's occupation, 1988 Census



1153) MAISCO88
Respondent's mother's occupation, 1988 Census



1154) SPISCO88
Respondent's spouse's occupation, 1988 Census



1155) SEI
Respondent socioeconomic index.



1156) PASEI
Socioeconomic index of respondent's father.



1157) MASEI
Socioeconomic index of respondent's mother.



1158) SPSEI
Socioeconomic index of respondent's spouse.



1159) COHORT
Birth cohort of respondent -- actual year of birth.



1160) ZODIAC
Astrological sign of respondent



1161) INTHISP
Interviewer, are you Spanish, Hispanic, or Latino/Latina?



1162) INTRACE1
What is your race?



1163) INTRACE2
What is your race?



1164) INTRACE3
What is your race?



1165) BALLOT
Ballot Administered.



1166) VERSION
Version Administered



1167) ISSP
Status on International Social Survey Program Supplement.



1168) FORMWT
Weight for form variables. Post-stratification weight



1169) SAMPCODE
Sampling error code.



1170) SAMPLE
The GSS has employed various sampling procedures and frames. Appendix A gives full details.



1171) OVERSAMP
Weight for Black oversamples.



1172) PHASE
Subsampling: two-phase design [1 = PHASE 1 - Initial cases; 2 = Phase 2 - Subsampled cases]



1173) WT2004
Weight of variables--Weights for 2004



1174) WT2004NR
Weight of variables--Weights for 2004 area nonresponse adjustment



1175) I-AGE
Respondent's age (Recoded for use with online analysis)



1176) I-SEX
Respondent's sex (for use with online analysis)



1177) I-EDUC
Highest educational degree earned by respondent (Recoded for use with online analysis)



1178) I-POLITICS
I'm going to show you a seven-point scale on which the political views that people might hold are arranged from extremely liberal to extremely conservative. Where would you place yourself on this scale? (Recoded for use with online analysis)



1179) I-MARITAL
Are you currently -- married, widowed, divorced, separated, or have you never been married? (for use with online analysis)



1180) I-RELIGION
What is your religious preference? Is it Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, some other religion, or no religion? (Recoded for use with online analysis)



